
BY ARI MARMELL, SARAH ROARK AND JANET TRAUTVETTER
VAMPIRE CREATED BY MARK REIN- HAGEN
CREDITS
Written :b yAri Marmel, Sarah Roark and Janet Trautveter
Vampire and the World of Darkness created by
Mark Rein•Hagen
Storyteller Game System Design : Mark Rein •Hagen
Developed by : Justin Achilli
Editor : Diane Piron-Gelman
Art Director: Richard Thomas
Layout & Typesetting : Pauline Benney
Interior Art: Mike Danza, Mike Gaydos, Vince Locke
Front Cover Art: Lawrence Snelly
Front & Back Cover Design : Pauline aka Evil Ninja
OVERHEARD
I would cancel all my business trips if we could find
the dwarven citadel .
- Chad Brown
Was that a giant cat? There were people inside .
- Rebecca Schaefer
I do not know zee meaning of zee word "eraser"!
- Mike Chaney
I just remembered that monkey that can run 40
miles per hour .
-Justin Achilli
CORRECTION
Due to deadlines, an Additional Material credit for
Vis Sierra was omitted from New York by Night . In
recognition, we credit those contributions here and in
future printings of that book.
© 2002 White Wolf Publishing, Inc . All rights reserved .
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher is
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews and for
blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use
only . White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire
the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, Hunter the Reckoning,
World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of
White Wolf Publishing, Inc . All rights reserved . Werewolf the
Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming,
Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith
the Great War, Trinity, Midnight Siege, Gilded Cage, Guide to
the Sabbat, Guide to the Camarilla and Archons & Templars are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc . All
rights reserved . All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc .
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark
or copyright concerned .
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes . All mystical and supernatural elements
are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only . This book contains mature content . Reader discretion
is advised .
For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF .
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www .white-wolf.com; alt .games .whitewolf and rec .games .frp .storyteller
PRINTED IN CANADA.
CAME STUDIO
735 PARK NORTH BLVD.
SUITE 128
CLARKSTON, CA 30021
USA
TABLE' OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
CHAPTER TWO : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
CHAPTER FOUR : OF WITS AND WISDOM
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
APPENDIX : TOOLS OF THE TRADE
4
40
68
88
116
138

Partial transcript of a briefing given to new
recruits by Archon Kirsten Bellamy of Clan Toreador;
handwritten comments added after the fact by
Archon Zachariah Shale of Clan Tremere
It should go without saying, when viewed through
both the lens of history and of modern affairs, that the
Camarilla stands preeminent as the single most successful,
and most vital, social construct of Kindred
society . Without the sect, its laws, its procedures and
above all its Masquerade, we would have long since
been destroyed by either the endless mortal masses or
rogue elements within our own ranks .
It should, but it doesn't . Despite all demands of
common sense and sanity, Kindred still exist who wish
to see the Camarilla torn down .
Violence is the last refuge of the desperate, but the
modern nights surely hold enough desperation to account
for a great deal of violence . We, the Camarilla,
Diplomacy has rarely been able to gain at the conference
table what cannot be gained or held on the battlefield.
- General Walter Bedell Smith
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
5
therefore find ourselves in need of force with which to
counter the force of others . Police and bodyguards ;
soldiers and assassins ; detectives and spies ; judge, jury
and all too often executioner .
Mortal nations burden their governments and
bureaucracies with dozens of agencies designed to
fulfill these needs, from the CIA and NSA to the
FBI and local police to trillion-dollar-budget armed
forces We, of course, aren't kine, and we don't
govern the way they do . We do not govern at all .
The Camarilla wisely simplifies matters . What use is
a muddled collection of such organizations when
one will suffice? Almost from its earliest nights, the
Ivory Tower has laid the honor of such duties upon
the archons.
More so even than the justicars to whom we swear
allegiance, we archons represent the true might of the
Camarilla . We spend most of our time in the field,
doing whatever must be done, policing the top of the
food chain, judging the Damned and trying - with
varying degrees of success-to bring some semblance
of order to these chaotic nights . Sabbat slavering at the
door, howling to come in? Rogue prince needs slapping
down, hard, before his behavior encourages others?
Diablerists running loose in the streets, stomping on
the Traditions and shredding the Masquerade like so
much tissue paper? We can take care of it for you . We
can make it all go away .
If you're willing to suffer the consequences for
admitting you cu' t handle it on your own . This is
the Camarilla, after all, and asking for help against
even an obviously superior foe is a sign of nearly
inexcusable weakness . of course, we can ,t tell our new
recruits that, can we?
e whole thing's a load of horseshit anyway. Ve
don't "represent the might" of the Camarilla ; and
while the Camarilla's definitely a good thing in
principle, and by far the best of the choices given
us, 1f the sec+ as it stands now represents the
utmost heights of Kindred achievement, we're
screwed. Ve can barely keep the Ivory lower from
toppling over .
Boiled down to its simplest form, an archon is any
Kindred who serves a justicar . We have no prerequisites,
no fitness tests or Civil Service Exams . If a
justicar thinks you're useful, and if you're willing to
serve her, you're an archon.
The justicars are rarely so casual about their
selections, though . We're not merely a justicar's eyes
and ears, but her hands, her voice and her fangs as
well . Since we're the Camarilla's penultimate force of
order, not to mention internal affairs and the closest
available equivalent to a standing army, an ineffective
archon threatens not only his fellows and the
justicar he serves, but also the safety and sanctity of
the entire sect . Not every one of us has to be a buffed
out, chaingun-toting combat warlord, but each archon
must be eminently skilled at what he does -
whatever that might be . A hacker, a cat burglar, a
mechanic or even (Caine forbid!) a lawyer are all
archon material, if they've the proper temperament
and level of proficiency- and if that happens to be
what a justicar requires at the moment . Don't embarrass
your boss and don't bollix your assignments ;
everything else is negotiable .
That said, many archons are more than able to lay
a serious beat-down on someone who needs it . When
all is said and done, when all the pretty layers are
stripped bare, one of our primary duties is still to go
toward whatever the justicar points at and either tear
it down or blow it up .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
6
THE LINE OF DUTY
So what do we do, exactly? It's easy to say "Ooh,
archons! These guys are the bad-ass secret (or not-sosecret)
police of the Camarilla! Break the rules and
they'll mess you up! Oh, and they fight the Sabbat a
bunch, too ."
We do police the Kindred, but we aren't a "police
force" in the sense that most kine use the term . We
don't travel around in squad cars looking for trouble .
We don't operate out of a central headquarters, and
we sure as hell don't carry badges . Archons are proxies
for the justicar we serve . Sure, we may be more
numerous than those esteemed judges of the
Camarilla, but there still aren't enough of us that we
can waste our time with every petty complaint that
comes our way .
HUE AND CRY
Because of the recent war on the East Coast,
some younger Licks tend to think of the archons
entirely as a paramilitary organization, the special
forces units who drop in out of nowhere to deal with
Sabbat crusades and Lupine sightings . The truth is
that conflict with "the enemy" makes up a relative
minority of our night-to-night activities . Yes, we
spend most of our time cleaning up our own backyard.
Few of us operate regularly in hostile territory .
(What? Well, yes, most territory is hostile to an
archon, but you know what I mean .) Most archons
never see the inside of a non-Camarilla city, and
those who do are probably involved in one of the
Camarilla's few military-style offenses . Yes, some of
us specialize in warfare, and a few serve as intelligence
agents and spies, but the majority are far too
busy dealing with internal Camarilla issues .
Standard police procedure in the United States
maintains that local police handle local crimes . Only if
a case violates certain specific national laws, or crosses
borders between jurisdictions, are the government cops
- the FBI - called in to deal with the situation .
As archons, we function in a similar manner,
though you ought to be careful spreading that
around, since some of us don't appreciate being
compared to mortal agencies like that . A prince
who runs crying to the Camarilla every time something
goes wrong in her city is going to find herself
out of power - and quite possibly working on an
unseasonable tan - in short order . Cities are, in
the eyes of the Camarilla, loosely allied autonomous
entities . If a prince can't handle her own
affairs, she's not worthy to be prince . Only in the
most extreme cases is a justicar willing to dispatch
archons to deal with a local matter .
FOR THE STORYTELLER:
PLAYING THE NUMBERS
Each of the six justicars has as many archons
as he or she sees fit . No formal regulations
limit their options, nor does a review board or
oversight committee keep track of such things .
As the justicars aren't required to report specifics
even to the Inner Circle or each other, often
no one knows how many archons are active at
any given time .
Certain estimations are possible, though .
It is highly unlikely that even the most hyperactive,
work-obsessed justicar could
reasonably coordinate the activities of more
than a few dozen such agents, and many
justicars - such as Lucinde of Clan Ventrue
- spend enough time in the field that they
probably can't manage more than a few archons
. Simple mathematics suggest, then, that
the Camarilla probably claims somewhere between
50 and 250 archons (more during
periods of intense conflict such as the recent
war against the Sabbat on the East Coast,
when the justicars become a lot more lax in
their requirements) .
Not a lot, when you consider the vast area
they have to cover and the vital nature of their
work, but it's been sufficient to this point.
With any luck, it will continue to be so into
the Final Nights . . . .
The unfortunate fallout of this method of
operation is that many princes, terrified 4 losing
status in the eyes of their fellow Kindred, hesitate
to call for help when the situation does warrant it.
'My own boss, the nosferatu Justicar Cock Robin,
has a number of analysts ferreting out patterns
from the past hundred years of conflict . They've
determine that at least three of the cities the
Sabbat took in the last century could have been saved
if the local prince and primogen had called for help
when things got too hot to handle .
Frankly, most princes - or primogen, or other
elder Kindred - don't want archons poking around
their city . Vhile some few elders don't have anything
to hide - they're called "dead" - most vampires
don't want The Man catching e ven a hint of what
they're up to . The mere suggestion that a problem
might attract the attention of an archon is often
enough to motivate a lackadaisical prince to get off
his ass and deal with the situation .
CHAPTER ONE THE NOBLE CAUSE
7
How a desperate prince (or other local Kindred)
calls for help is an issue, too . The justicars don't
sit at home in their stately manors waiting for a
call on the Camarilla-phone . vhile several justicars,
and most archons, have of necessity grown more
familiar and more comfortable with modern technology
than many other Kindred of comparable age,
this doesn't automatically mean we're easily
reached. Princes are not issued business cards with
the a-mail and cell phone number of the nearest
justicar. Granted, a given prince probably has
enough contacts in high places that he knows
someone who knows someone who can get in touch with
a justicar, assuming he can't do so himself. Even
then, justicars are moving about constantly,
dealing with this problem or mediating that dispute,
and are often out of contact for nights or weeks
at a time . Some of us are easier to reach than our
bosses, but we rarely have the authority to act
in a substantial manner without at least a nod from
above, unless the situation is clearly of such vital
import that the entire Camarilla is threatened if
someone doesn't take action now . Under the best
of circumstances and for all but the highest levels
of the Camarilla, calling in archons or a .justicar
from outside is a process that takes several nights,
or longer . A Kindred who needs help immediatel y is
pretty much SoL. She should have picked up on what
was happening sooner, shouldn't she?
In recent years, and in light of events that have
rocked the Kindred community, the justicars have
made a few adjustments to the way their archons
operate . Although most of us still serve as roving
troubleshooters, the justicars have identified several
specific "problem areas ." To these they have
assigned a more-or-less permanent enclave of archons
. These "fixed" coteries are responsible for
maintaining order (or, in the case of those assigned
to the newly acquired Sabbat territories on the
East Coast, communicating intelligence) in their
designated theater of operation . The Brujah Justicar
Jaroslav Pascek and the Tremere Justicar Anastasz
di Zagreb - a strange partnership, to be sure -
have suggested that these localized cells be given
full autonomy, maintaining that they'd be far more
effective if permitted to work with whichever
justicar is most geographically convenient . The
other justicars have, to this point, opposed such a
radical notion .
What do I think? I think that whatever the justicars
decide is the best option, of course . I also think you
should shut up .
oh, yeah. Great Way to encourage creative
thought there, Kirsten. Fool.
INTERNAL SECURITY
As I've stated, most of the threats you'll face over
the course of your (often woefully short) career as an
archon come from within the Camarilla itself. Astonishing
as it may often seem, some of our Kindred
simply fail to grasp the vital importance of the
Camarilla and act, either through malice or ignorance,
against its best interests .
oh, woe . Look at the big mean nasties who "fail
to grasp." It's not like this is a rare thing, and not
even the most idiotic new recruit is going to buy into
the idea that it is . Considering the ungodly amount
of political maneuvering and cold (or not so cold)
warfare that goes on behind the fa ade of the Ivory
Tower, many outsiders find it nothing short of a
miracle that the Camarilla hasn' t collapsed entirely .
the truth is that the tower is more stable than
it looks; enlightened self-interest is a powerful
motivator For even the most selfish and powerhungry
Kindred. that said, the walls do buckle on
occasion, and it falls to us to shore up the breach .
Pt TTY CRIMINALS
AND TRADITION VIOLATORS
We don't deal with this sort of thing on a regular
basis (with the obvious exception of Masquerade
violations) . Calling an archon to deal with Kindred
who violate domain rights or sire without permission
is akin to calling the FBI to deal with a string of
ATM robberies (assuming we could be bothered to
respond to such a summons in the first place) . This
is, after all, what the prince, the sheriff (and, to a
lesser extent, the scourge) are for . If local authorities
aren't capable of handling such piddling details,
the prince either needs to find a new sheriff, or the
city needs to find a new prince .
Occasional exceptions are made for violations of
the Sixth Tradition . Kindred killing Kindred is still
very much a local affair, but should the problem grow
to epidemic proportions (as happened in Houston in
the mid-1990s), or should a victim happen to possess
extreme political clout or powerful allies, an archon
may be "loaned" to the local prince to assist in the
investigation . This is a double-edged sword, so far as
the prince herself is concerned . True, she's got a
better chance of finding out who's slaughtering the
Kindred in her domain, but word's going to spread
quickly that she needed outside help to do it . Furthermore,
the archon is almost certainly there as much to
determine why the prince couldn't deal with the issue
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
8
herself as he is to catch the killer . The arrival of an
archon to deal with internal matters such as these has
presaged the fall of the current prince on more than
one occasion .
Kirsten and I were in Houston when those murders
took place . It wasn' t pretty . Ve may not normally
get involved in local affairs, but dont be afraid to
do
h44 to
that if you feel something's off-kilter . I'd
hate to think how much we'd have lost 4 the two of
us hadn + gotten involved .
Yes, I'm glad she was there with me. And yes,
4 you tell anyone I said that, I'll swear blind that
you're lying .
Nothing kicks over the anthill, of course, like a
potential break of the Masquerade . A breach of the
First Tradition sets any of us who happen to be
nearby scurrying about along with the local power
structure (with or without a justicar's approval, as a
threat to the Masquerade falls into the aforementioned
"clear and present danger" clause) . Witnesses
are hushed up, evidence is buried or destroyed and
the violators - well, they're normally buried or
destroyed, too .
once the fissure has been plugged, 411
, jtuirionsadil coperation goes right outhe window, and the
archons who got swept- up in the hustle are going to
take a long, hard an very uncomfortable loo at the
local Cainites who allowed such a near-catastrophe
to occur in the first place.
This happens a lot more frequently than Kirsten
Implies. Br along 4e Masquerade may be one of the
greatest crimes a Lick can commit, but it's also the
most frequent. Sometimes it's accidental ; some whelp
loses control in the middle of a nightclub, or didn't
realize that some old lady was staring out of her
apartment window two stories up when he suddenly
decided to +I-urn into a bat . others are deliberate .
Kindred break the rules for personal gain, or evenjust
for fun. ve're still working on inserting agents into
the so-called Thrill Kill Club . These idiots violate
domain, tradition, the Masquerade and almost
everything else you can think of, and they do it for
the rush. Let them come forward and identify
themselves, I'll give them a thrill . . . .
ANARCHS
Although the first instinct is often to lump the
anarchs in with other ignorant or immature Kindred
as simple violators of Tradition, most of us consider
them a threat unique unto themselves . Some of our
elder brethren still remember the Anarch Revolt and
the nights when "anarch" meant something a lot
more dangerous than some dissatisfied punk on a
motorcycle hurling Molotov cocktails and kitchenchemical
pipe bombs (not that a well-aimed Molotov
can't ruin your whole evening regardless of who
chucked it at you) . Even those of us unhindered by
the definitions of the past see these young (quasi-
)radicals as a danger to the stability of the Camarilla,
at least on a local level . Their tendency to cluster
together and rally around their pitiful ideology makes
them more of a threat than the average petty thug,
and their desire to bring down the whole system
makes them particularly tenacious .
None of which means we automatically jump
every time someone yells "Anarch!" We'd still prefer
to let the local Kindred deal with such matters,
and nine times out of ten, that's exactly what happens
. Still, because the anarchs are specifically
interested in bringing down the local "authority"
(which usually means the prince and/or primogen),
they're more likely to draw the eyes of a curious
archon than are other, less driven rogue elements .
The Camarilla, as a body, doesn't really care who
the Prince of Little Rock might be, but that doesn't
mean they want to see the city without a reliable
figurehead (Camarilla-loyal, obviously) of some sort .
Occasionally it turns out that no one on the local
scene has sufficient capability to take over if the
current prince is ousted or sent to Final Death . This,
primarily, is where we are most willing to step in and
take a hand in defending the current power structure
against "mere" anarchs .
The fact that "anarch activity" is sometimes a
cover for much more serious Sabbat action is also
enough to inspire a fair amount of archon scrutiny,
though our interest is usually limited to fact-finding
and intelligence gathering until and unless the situation
crystallizes into a true threat (either from the
Sabbat or for reasons described above) . Fortunately,
the years have taught us the differences between Sabbat
and anarch techniques; if the Sabbat is trying to sneak
in the anarch's door, we're usually in a pretty good
position to spot it .
A schism exists among our ranks as to how
best to deal with anarchs who operate in
Camarilla domains . Some, a faction spearheaded
by Cock Robin (whose predecessor, petrodon, was
vehemently anti-anarch) still insist that the
anarchs be dealt with as fiercely and as brutally
as any other enemy faction . others, such as
Madam Guil and those suck-ups l theo Bell and haha
torpid Federico Dipadua, insist that the
anarchs must be treated fairly, if not gently,
lest they be driven into the arms of the Sabbat
CHAPTER ONE : THE NOBLE CAUSE
9
and transformed from a minor threat into a
major one . An anarch cell in belfast recently
escaped punishment entirely by fleeing info the
night when the coterie of archons dispatched to
deal with them wound up in a physical altercation
with one another over the question of what to
do with the apprehended troublemakers .
FOR THE STORYTELLER : THE LESSER EVIL
In the wake of the Cathayan invasion of
the West Coast and the crumbling (for all
practical purposes) of the Anarch Free State, a
large number of anarchs have come skulking
back into the fold. These Kindred have reluctantly
come to understand that the iron fist of
the Camarilla, while odious, is sometimes preferable
to other available options . While many
of these prodigals have returned to their old
ways, stirring up trouble and attempting to
improve the situation of "the people" by sowing
dissent, some of the others have come to two
uncomfortable but inescapable conclusions .
One, that the system has to be changed from
the inside ; only those with power can make
things better for those without . Two, that the
Camarilla must survive long enough for said
changes to be implemented, and that means it
must be defended from a list of foes that seems
to grow on a nightly basis .
It is from this stock of ex-anarchs that the
justicars have recently begun drawing many of
their newest archons . Already intimately familiar
with the techniques of violence and the
constant stress of night-to-night conflict,
minds blazing with their newfound conviction
that the Camarilla is again the best option
left to them, they seem to have molded themselves
into exactly what the justicars need .
More than a few have also begun to abuse their
newfound authority, but that's hardly unique
among archons . Some justicars, like Cock
Robin and Jaroslav Pascek, are less than
thrilled at this particular turn of events, but
the ex-anarch archons are quickly proving
themselves to those justicars willing to give
them a shot . Several of the justicars and elder
archons have even discussed offering a general
amnesty to any anarchs who wish to "come in
from the cold," as it were, and offer their
services, but such a plan has been shelved
until the elders can figure out a reliable way of
enforcing terms of service on so many potential
converts .
t
Can't expect Kirsten to mention any of -this, of
course. God forbid we give anything less than the
appearance of complete accord on everything . 'his
is why we lose archons .
WIGHTS
No Kindred, however humane or strong-willed,
however ancient or powerful, can forget the Beast
that lurks just below the surface of her conscious
mind . It can never be escaped, never be appeased .
Every Kindred fears that dreadful night, however
near or far into the future it may be, when she loses
her final struggle with the Beast and becomes forevermore
a ravening, blood-starved animal . Many
Kindred, myself included, would gladly choose Final
Death over such a fate .
Some hapless Kindred aren't given that choice . A
truly degenerate vampire, one fallen to her Beast
beyond all hope of salvation, is a fearsome thing to
behold and even more fearsome to combat . These
wights, as they have come to be called, represent one
of the greatest dangers to the Kindred community, all
the more so because it's frighteningly easy to become
one of them .
Although exceptions exist, wights tend to be
either very young or very old Kindred . The most
youthful fledglings lack sufficient knowledge of
their new natures to ward off the cravings of the
Beast, and more than a few elders have so lost
touch with the humanitas they once knew that they
can no longer hold their monstrous natures at bay .
While a fledgling wight is certainly dangerous and
an undeniable threat to the Masquerade, the forces
available to a local prince or sheriff are probably
sufficient to bring it down . Should an ancient
Cainite fall to the Beast, however, even the mightiest
prince may not have the resources to contain
the creature .
The elimination of a degenerate Kindred is one of
the duties archons look forward to the least . No
peaceable resolution is possible, no negotiation can
prove effective, and the battle cannot be won by
routing the enemy as it can with the Sabbat or even
the Lupines . When it comes to dealing with a wight,
the battle is over when the creature meets its Final
Death. o No other resolution will serve. Aside from
the sheer carnage such an entity can wreak before it's
brought down, the Masquerade must again be considered
. Even the Sabbat, who regularly violate the First
Tradition in their war with the Camarilla, know
better than to rip the veil so wide open that the
mortals learn en masse of Cainite existence . Wights
have no such concern, being nothing but bestial -
though hardly mindless! - predators .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
10
Wights tend to be handled by coteries of archons
rather than single agents, and almost always from a
distance . "Firepower" is the watchword of the night,
and you're always going to have a mess to clean up
afterward . We usually try to arrange things with local
Kindred media contacts before undertaking such operations,
to ensure suitable cover stories are prepared
well in advance as explanations for the inevitable
collateral damage, or merely glossed over in favor of
more sedate news .
ROGUE ELDERS
Sometimes the Kindred in the highest positions
are the ones causing the problems . Some elders have
simply decided that the rules and regulations of the
Camarilla no longer apply to them . No, I'm not
talking about minor infractions ; I mean schemes
that can damage an entire domain, or the Camarilla,
or even the Masquerade itself . Some of these elders
predate the sects entirely and refuse to bow to what
they view as arbitrary, newfangled notions . Others
haven't been stupid enough to turn away from the
Camarilla, but their plots and schemes have reached
the point where they threaten local stability beyond
acceptable levels . Such threats are often outside the
capabilities of even the mightiest prince to curtail .
What's he to do against an enemy of equal power,
who knows the city as well as he does and has just as
much local clout? What if the troublemaker is, in
fact, the prince himself?
Such things are hardly unheard of. The prince may
interpret the Traditions in his own domain, but he's no
more above the Traditions than anyone else . An unstable
prince can destabilize a city or even an entire
region, tying up resources, crippling other elders and
leaving the gates wide open for a Sabbat crusade,
Giovanni expansion or Cathayan invasion . Elders
may plot against those who must remain sacrosanct :
the justicars, or even the Inner Circle itself . Those
Methuselahs guilty of diablerie in their younger nights
sometimes find that the blood of kine no longer sustains
them, and turn their hunger loose on the Kindred
around them.
Archon involvement in these circumstances
isn't always physical action . If the rogue is the
prince of a city who needs to be overthrown but
not necessarily slain, we may never make our
presence known. The prince simply wakes one
evening to find that her influence in the city
government has been partially usurped by someone
even more manipulative than she, or that her chief
rival for the princedom has somehow come up with
a vast network of informants and contacts he didn't
have the night before.
For the Storyteller : . . . Lest a Beast I Become
Wights are not mindless automatons wandering about with arms outstretched and biting everything
they come across . Though they have lost any sense of humanity and sentience, they should be
treated like cunning predators, not slobbering zombies . Wights know better than to attack when
they're greatly outnumbered . They tend to choose the weakest prey available. They are cunning
enough to stalk from the shadows, patiently hunting their next meal until an opportune time to strike
presents itself . They are fully capable of using most of the Disciplines they possessed before the Wassail .
Disciplines that require detailed thought - Mask of a Thousand Faces, The Spirit's Touch, Telepathy,
Dominate or any form of blood magic, for instance - should be denied, but anything else within
reason is permitted . A nasty Storyteller might even allow certain Disciplines Feral Whispers,
Celerity or Shape of the Beast, for example - to function better or more cheaply (or just differently)
due to the wight's closer link with the Beast .
The unleashing of the Beast in a wight alters the creature's emotional responses as well as reaction to
pain and outside stimuli . In game terms, a wight always enjoys the benefits normally conferred by frenzy
(save for the immunity to Rotschreck; see the section on frenzy in Vampire; The Masquerade for more
details) . The wight does not suffer the loss of control normally associated with frenzy, though its bestial
nature often causes it to act in a similar fashion .
A wight, like any other predator, is rarely willing to risk death over a-meal . Wights will run from
an opponent that proves too much of a challenge, though such foes are understandably rare. Thus, the
hunt for a wight isn't over the first time the creature is engaged in combat. If it escapes, the hunters
will have to seek it all over again, and wights are clever enough to learn from experience . Some wights
have relearned how to operate simple mechanical devices like doorknobs, window latches and even
firearms, though anything more complex than these is outside the creature's capability .
The Storyteller should run a wight like any other dangerous predator cunning, clever and willing to
use all of its formidable abilities to either kill or escape from its enemies . If you need inspiration, go rent
The Ghost and the Darkness . Watch how the lions operate, and mimic them shamelessly. A wight is not
something you throw at a weak or unprepared group. Run properly, in fact, a wight can serve as the
primary antagonist in a long-running story, despite its apparent inability to comprehend the Byzantine
machinations of other Kindred. Imagine, for instance, the sort of terror a wight with a taste for diablerie
would generate among the Kindred community of a small or isolated city . "Hunters hunted" takes on a
whole new meaning here!
only a fool would believe that such interference
on the part of the archons is limited to the
"greater good." Justicars and archons, despite
rules to the contrary, are no less partisan than
other Kindred. Princes have been inconvenienced,
weakened and even removed for no better cause
than that a justicar or independent-minded
archon owed the target's rivals a boon . No sane
archon would do such a thing without his
superior's consent if there were any chance of
being caught, or of destabilizing the city beyond
acceptable limits ; they may not be willing to
completely forego their own agendas, but most
aren't willing to put them too far ahead of the
camarilla's interests . 'then again, not all archons
are wholly sane and even those who are
sometimes make mistakes .
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
I I
I'm not condoning such things, but you'll have to
be aware of them if you're going to survive more
than a week .
l he same situation often holds true in reverse .
Justicars and archons who do support a specific
prince - either for personal reasons, obligations of
debt and prestation or simply because they feel that
she's the best thing for the city - bend the rules
on occasion and interfere in order to keep her in power .
sore than one potential usurper has been put down
hard when the threatened prince or primogen suddenly
received vast amounts of aid from unanticipated
quarters. Such aid often comes with the steepest of
prices, of course . A prince who owes her continued
reign to an archon finds herself in substantial debt,
and God forbid an elder should actually owe a boon
to a justicar!
FOREIGN POLICY
Threats from outside the Camarilla, though less
frequent than turmoil from within, are often far bloodier
affairs . We spend relatively little time battling forces
that would see us- or all Kindred, for that matter -
wiped from the face of the Earth, but that doesn't make
the task any less vital . The Camarilla has enemies
everywhere, and the war of the sects rages endlessly .
Whatever flaws the Camarilla may have, the sect is
vital to our continued existence ; our way of unlife
depends on it .
Of course, archons don't serve as the Camarilla's
only soldiers . Under dire circumstances, we can field
an enormous number of Licks . Your common Kindred
doesn't have the training or the skills to stand up to a
Sabbat crusader or a rabid Lupine, however, and there
simply aren't enough archons to stand alone on the
battlefield. When open warfare erupts in the modem
nights, it frequently means the Camarilla's preferred
tactics have already failed .
THE SABBAT
The Bad Guys . Damn near every fledgling, if
they learn nothing else, learns this . The Sword of
Caine, the Black Hand, a horde of ravening, psychotic
lunatics who practice regular diablerie and
would like nothing better than to see the entire
Camarilla washed away in a bloody deluge of Biblical
proportions . These are our greatest enemies,
revelers in violence and blood who will tear us down
with no thought for the repercussions unless we
crush them first .
Not entirely true, of course, but what do you
expect from the world's second-oldest propaganda
machine? And anyway, it's not entirely false,
either .
The justicars do not throw hordes of archons at
every city with a rumored (or even confirmed)
Sabbat presence, as much as some might like to do
just that. There aren't enough of us to go around,
and we're not expendable . The truth is, recent
dramatic instances aside, Sabbat crusades fail more
often than they succeed, due to the entrenchment
of the target city's prince and other Kindred . There's
some sense in the upper echelons of the Camarilla
that a prince who can't hold his own city against the
Black Hand doesn't deserve it anyway, but that
attitude costs territory .
Ve'd like to think we're not expendable, but most
of us know better .
Justicars, therefore, carefully select which cities
they're going to help defend against Sabbat aggression,
based on the resources of the community and its
ARCHON S AND TEMPLARS
12
strategic value . Should the Sabbat make a grab for
Madison, Wisconsin, there would probably be little
reaction from the Camarilla's highest levels. They
don't want to see the city fall, and with any luck the
prince would be able to hold her own ; but if not,
resources are needed more urgently elsewhere, and
the city can always be retaken later when a more
competent elder comes to the fore . Should Houston
or the newly taken New York City be threatened -
both heavily populated cities that stand as bastions
against nearby Sabbat strongholds - some of us
would almost certainly be dispatched to help the
locals handle the problem . Even small border towns
like El Paso can be vital .
This does not mean that we show up in units of
20, marching in lockstep and armed with M- 16s and
sabers . The greatest assistance an archon (or group
of archons) can supply a beleaguered prince comes
in the form of tactics, resources and knowledge . One
of us might impose night-to-night "martial law"
over the city's Kindred if she outmatches the prince
in strategic planning ability . Perhaps she has information
from her justicar and knows precisely who
leads the current crusade, meaning she can that
specific Cainite for extermination . Maybe she's there
to guard the prince himself, though such personal
consideration is rare indeed . Yes, she will take the
field should the need arise - and quite effectively,
more often than not - but that's not likely her
primary function .
We're also found in the vanguard of Camarilla
strikes on Sabbat territory. The recent taking of
New York is a prime example, with one of the
fronts being manned by Archon Theo Bell . Marshaling
all of the Camarilla's prime advantages,
Bell hit the Sabbat in New York from directions
they never expected using resources they hadn't
anticipated. Between the mortal waves during the
day, made up of everyone from police and firemen
to sanitation workers, and the war coteries that
had been assembled at night, Bell himself was
actually involved in only a relatively small proportion
of the violence . One extra gun rarely decides
a battle ; most of our people know this, and normally
place themselves in positions of tactical
command during military operations .
I don't like Bell . Yes, he's done a lot of good forr
the camarilla, and I respect him a great deal .
he's still a self-righteous dick.
Finally, some of us are occasionally sent on
deep-cover "fact-finding" operations into Sabbat
territory. Trained to handle themselves under extreme
duress and usually better informed about
Black Hand practices than most other Camarilla
Kindred, such archons have a reasonable success
rate in anti-Sabbat espionage .
This is not to say that they have a high success
rife. Most Sabbat infiltrators never return .
Some justicars fear to risk their pets in such a
manner. Not because they dislike the prospect of
losing so skilled an agent - we're expendable,
remember? - but because they worry that we may
be swept up in the Sabbat's group blood bonds and
falter in our loyalties . l he justicars - many of
whom blood bond their archons, though this is not a
universal practice - have heard rumors that these
rituals may be able to shatter old loyalties, and
prefer to send more expendable, if less knowledgeable,
spies into Sabbat ranks .
INDEPENDENT CLANS
Although they pose a far less frequent threat than
the Sabbat, the independent Kindred clans are quite
capable of causing no end of trouble in Camarilla
cities. Again, the prince is expected to be able to
handle her own issues, but we do sometimes get called
in to help deal with these outsiders .
The Giovanni and Followers of Set both operate
in Camarilla cities without much notice from
the prince and primogen . Both clans are wise
enough to keep their heads down most of the time
and avoid attracting hostile attention (which means
all attention, more often than not) . Although we've
had occasion to hunt specific criminals of these
clans, we've rarely engaged them in any true group
vs. group conflict, clan vs . archons . If a large
contingent of Necromancers or Serpents abruptly
moves into a Camarilla city, the prince may dispatch
an agent - or an archon, if he can call in the
right favors . Normally, the agent simply makes his
presence felt and lets the new arrivals know they're
being watched, though smart sheriffs and archons
usually take the opportunity to ensure that the
newcomers aren't being paid to smuggle Sabbat
into the city . Several of the justicars have given
their archons contingency plans and tactics to be
used should open conflict ever erupt with one of
these clans, but so far there has been little need to
use them. Yes, I'm fully briefed on at least two such
plans . No, I won't tell you about them . Didn't I ask
you to shut up?
Save for those given bodyguard duty, we've had,
until recently, very little professional contact withgag-
the Assamites . Those who were in a Camarilla
city by invitation posed no threat (to the Camarilla,
anyway), and those who came to assassinate a
CHAPTER ONE THE NOBLE CAUSE
13
Camarilla target were most often long gone by the
time we learned of their presence . This situation has
changed drastically in recent nights, with the tentative
adoption of a marginalized faction of Assamites
into the ranks of the Camarilla . I say again, gag . More
on this later .
Surprisingly, we're required to deal with the
Ravnos as frequently as any other independent clan,
if not more so . Unlike the Giovanni and the Setites,
Ravnos often make little effort to keep themselves
inconspicuous, and they tend to hang around a
given city far longer than any Assamite liaison .
They often come across as mere vagrants and thieves,
causing their unwilling hosts a great deal of consternation
but little real harm - but those hostile to the
Camarilla or who hold a grudge against the local
Kindred are truly dangerous. Between their powers
of illusion and their utter disregard for established
rules, the Deceivers make excellent spies, saboteurs
and assassins . Although reluctant to do so for the
usual reasons of status and reputation, a prince
whose normal operatives are less than effective at
hunting such a master guerrilla may find herself
forced to call on outside aid .
Some of our more bloodthirsty or vicious brethren
actually relish the prospect 6f hunting a rogue Ravnos .
l he Deceivers' lack of clan cohesion - particularly
now, in light of the recent drop in the clans population
- grants these archons the opportunity to really cut
loose on a victim with no (or at least few)
commensurate risks or political repercussions . Some
truly sadistic Camarilla Kindred, including several "bad
apple" archons, have harried and even slain Ravnos who
were innocent of any wrongdoing, simply because they
make easy victims due to their lack 6f an establishment
to back them up. "Easy" is a relative term, however ... .
Every Lick ve ever put to death was guilty of
serious crimes, of course .
LUPINES
Things lurk outside the confines of the cities that
even the Kindred do well to fear . Princes who would
prefer to lose their thrones to an upstart or their cities
to the Sabbat rather than swallow enough pride to call
for help show no compunction about screaming like
little girls when a pack of werewolves comes to town .
These fur-bedecked Cuisinarts make an unfortunate
habit of tearing through Kindred like Kleenex, and no
one wants to be standing alone - or nearby - when
they arrive .
Such occurrences are rare ; the Lupines know
well enough that the city is "Leech" territory, just as
the vampires know better than to set foot outside
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
14
the metropolitan area if they can help it . Every now
and again, however, the local howlers get a large
burr up their collective rear and go tear-assing
through downtown, chewing up anyone who smells
like a worm, or some such thing . When that happens,
the archons are often summoned - and we
come loaded for bear . Most of the time, you'll find
that the only way to deal with the werewolves is in
the way that most Kindred think we deal with the
Sabbat. In other words, a great deal of firepower .
Unfortunately, violence of this nature is not so
easily explained away, though most mortals seem
unable or unwilling to remember the werewolves
when they see them, so cleanup is nominally easier
than it should be .
I've dealt with Lupines, more than once . l they're
not animals ; they're thinking, planning opponents .
Nasty as they are physically, they're often just
as smart and just as supernaturally powerful as
we are . Forget that, and you're going to wind up
very dead.
sometimes, 4 You're very lucky, you can even
negotiate with them. Just make sureyou're
standing at least a hundred yards away while you
do it .
HUNTERS
What? Mortals? Threatening us? Okay, sure, the
occasional super-lucky Van Helsing- or Buffy-wannabe
dusts the occasional ignorant Lick, but that's an isolated
thing, right?
So goes the prevalent attitude among neonates
. Those of us who have faced organized hunters,
or who still remember the blazing pyres of the
Inquisition are less quick to dismiss the dangers
posed by well-prepared - and well-informed -
kine . These fears of times long past, coupled with
an alarming surge in the number of hunters who
show mysterious powers of unknown origin, ensure
that those Kindred with any amount of common
sense grant these mortal predators the respect
they're due.
she's actually taking the hunters seriously . I'm
stunned . I've got to lie down .
As archons, we deal with hunters infrequently,
unless we happen to be the next vampire selected
as a random target. Only in a handful of cases
through the years have we, as archons, felt the
need to involve ourselves in the, ahem, removal of
a hunter . Most of them simply don't achieve a
sufficient body count to make them a priority . To
date, there have been no confirmed instances of an
archon dying at a hunter's hands, though enough
FOR THE STORYTELLER: SMASH IT Up
Vampire can be a game of personal horror
all it wants . Occasionally (if it happens more
than occasionally, maybe you should rethink
your choice of games) you really do just want to
whup up on something. In an archon chronicle,
Lupines provide the perfect opportunity to do
just that, so long as you're willing to let your
characters come home bloodied (if they come
home at all) .
While werewolves make excellent "combat
monsters," though, you shouldn't limit their
activities to such mundane procedures as " Find.
Stomp. Kill . Eat. Lather. Rinse . Repeat." These
are intelligent beings - even though they're
capable of a rage to make the Kindred's own
frenzy look like a temper tantrum - and many
of them possess mystical abilities the equal of all
but the highest levels of Disciplines . Individual
Lupines are just that : individuals . They have
their own goals and desires, their own loves and
hatreds, their own tactics and techniques . Nobody
is surprised to see a blood-drenched
werewolf standing in an ankle-deep pool of
body parts . They might be surprised when the
corporate raider who's been cutting the prince's
connections off at the knees sprouts fur and
fangs when they burst through the door of his
corner office .
Even if you are using them primarily for
combat, give the Lupines reasons' for what
they do . Not even werewolves fight without
purpose . Don't neglect the potential stories to
be told when preparing for such a conflict,
either. The search for a source of silver bullets
ought to require a hefty amount of effort in its
own right, and the werewolves haven't even
been engaged yet .
of us have vanished mysteriously over the years
that we can't be sure it's never happened .
CROSSED WIRES
The, purpose of a bureaucracy, or S6 14 often seems
t0 those on the Outside, is to maximize the potential
for error while minimizing the potential for actual
accomplishment . In simpler terms, mistakes are frequently
made in such ponderous organizations because
not only does the left hand not know what the right
hand is doing, but the ring finger isn't on speaking
terms with the thumb .
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
15
Add to this a constant personal Jyhad and
political infighting between individuals, factions,
clans and families, and you have the Camarilla . Now
consider that the Camarilla claims six justicars,
with no real authority over them . There's always
the Inner Circle, but even their clout over the
justicars is limited . Each justicar, though presumably
doing what she feels is best for the Camarilla,
has her own notions and ideas of what must be done,
her own personal agenda, her own allies, obligations
and responsibilities ...
.. .and, most importantly, her own team of agents
l his lack of a central control causes problems.
At times - more often than we're willing to admit
- archons find themselves working at crosspurposes
. Even by the most conservative estimates,
over °o archons operate in the Camarilla, in service
to six different leaders . None of us can claim to have
met every other, nor could he likely remember them
all by sight 1f he had . A coterie of archons might
work behind the scenes to cripple the resources of
a particular elder as a prelude to bringing him down,
only to learn that a second coterie has been
supplying the target with information, contacts and
other intangible support . Sometimes the archons
involved never learn of the other party, each simply
succeeding or failing at her assigned task, ignorant
of her contemporary's involvement . on extremely
rare occasions, archons have even ended up on
opposite sides of a violent conflict, as the philosophies
of one .justicar clash headlong against the
personal agenda of another .
while the justicars, the archons and the Inner
Circle would love to take steps to mitigate this
problem, there has been absolutely no consensus on
how to accomplish this . l he justicars flatly refuse
to submit to any sort of review or oversight
committee, or to offer regular reports on their
archons' activities . Nor is any single ,justicar
anxious to accept "observers," archons loyal to
another justicar, into his retinue . As it is, some
justicars spy on one another and their archons with
almost the same degree of paranoia as they spy on
the Camarilla's enemies, switching personnel around
continuously in attempts to introduce a mole into
a fellow justicar's entourage. As each guards
against such attempts with equal suspicion, however,
such efforts result in bare trickles of
information at best and outright failure (and
V
possibly even the Final Death of the archon in
question) at worst.
So the problems and miscommunications continue,
and archons continue to unknowingly expend valuable
effort working against one another that could be put
to Oar more productive use .
vould have been nice 0f Kirsten to mention
something of this, wouldn't it?
End transcript
THE RANK AND FILE
Not all archons are created equal . Rank and
status are a vital part of what defines an archon in
the eyes of his allies, contemporaries and rivals .
Some of these titles are official designations, formally
recognized by the Camarilla at large . Others
exist only in the argot of the archons, tags they've
attached to each other (or themselves) to better aid
in identification .
JUSTICAR
Not technically a rank of archon, the justicars are
the supreme judges, generals and peacekeepers of the
Camarilla . Only six exist at any given time, one for
each of the Camarilla's primary clans . The duties of
the justicar are much the same as those given for the
archons who serve them, save that the justicars operate
where even the archons have insufficient
authority . None but the members of the Inner Circle
supersede the justicars in rank, and none may gainsay
tKheir decrees . A justicar is, in fact, the only outside indred who is capable (formally if not always personally)
of setting foot in a prince's domain and
giving orders . The elders of the Camarilla often
harbor an intense love/hate relationship with these
supreme magistrates . They know that the justicars
keep the Kindred in line and keep the Camarilla
functioning, but each certainly has her own schemes
and dealings that are threatened by the justicars'
keen and hidden eyes . Fortunately (?), even the
justicars find themselves wrapped tight in webs of
prestation, and even their much-vaunted position
fails to render them immune to partisan politics and
political backbiting .
While a chronicle based around the activities
and exploits of a coterie of archons, hands (see
below) or some combination of the two can be a
great deal of fun, you're probably not going to
want to allow players' characters to function as
justicars unless you're dealing with a seriously
high-powered and heavily political elder
chronicle . Even if you do allow such a thing, it
shouldn't turn into an elder slugfest . The justicars
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
16
don't wade into combat with fists and bullets
flying ; that's what their archons are for .
And Then There Were Six
Seven justicars have served throughout most
of the Camarilla's history, until Xaviar, Justicar of
Clan Gangrel, departed the Ivory Tower along
with a preponderance of his clanmates . Only a few
scant years have passed since the Camarilla was
shaken by the toppling of one of its pillars, but
already the Kindred scramble to shore up their
weakened ramparts.
A movement - or, more precisely, several
movements - to reinstate a seventh justicar is
currently making the rounds of Camarilla salons,
conclaves and courts . Some Kindred, mostly members
of smaller, less represented bloodlines, wish to
see an "ex miscellanea" justicar appointed, one
whose duties would include watching out for the
interests of the Caitiff and the scant few Samedi,
Gargoyles, Lasombra antitribu and other "minorities"
of the Camarilla . While those who support
the notion argue with impressive and impassioned
vigor, the notion of such a thing actually coming to
pass is improbable .
The second movement, and one far more likely
to eventually bear fruit, is the push to endow an
Assamite justicar . The notion is terrifying to most
Kindred, who still tend to think of all Assamites as
bloody-minded killers despite rapidly growing evidence
to the contrary, and is still many nights away
from serious consideration, let alone implementation,
by the Inner Circle . Nevertheless, in the face of
the Gangrel departure and the recent Sabbat activities
in the East, a growing number of voices clamor for
a formalization of Assamite ties with the Camarilla .
Many of these support the inclusion of the Assassins
not out of trust - obviously - but from a "better
with us than against us" mentality .
Of all the standing justicars, only Anastasz di
Zagreb has spoken openly on the issue, loudly following
his clan's party line and denouncing the very
notion of an Assamite justicar . The feelings of the
other five justicars, whatever they might be, remain
their own .
As for the Assamites themselves, they too remain
relatively silent on the issue, following the lead of their
leader-in-exile. Al-Ashrad, apparently unwilling to
rock the boat, has abstained from any formal discussion
on the matter - publicly, at least .
PRAETOR
A temporary designation, normally assigned
for the duration of a particular operation, praetor is
the title bestowed on an archon who has attained
The Justicar's Oath of Station
I, [name], (childe of [sire], childe of [grandsire],)* do swear :
The camarilla is all ) and all are Camarilla . In service and in faith to the camarilla do I submerge
the greatest part of me . Let none, enemy from without or Beast from within, challenge my loyalty .
Let none, enemy from without or Beast from within, shatter my faith.
I have no interests that are not the interests of the Camarilla . I have no goals that- are not the
goals 0f the Camarilla . I suffer no threat to the Camarilla, from-within or from without, Kindred or kine.
Any who place their own cause above the Camarilla shall be struck down, and I beg of the Camarilla to
strike me down should I advance my cause above its own .
though I am a childe of [clan], and I represent the interests of the [clan] to the Camarilla, yet
I place the good of the Camarilla above even the needs of the [clan] . For without one, the Camarilla survives;
but without the Camarilla, none survive,
The friend of the Camarilla is my friend . The ally of the camarilla is my ally . The kindred of the
Camarilla are my kindred, unto the end of nights .
The enemy of my kindred is my enemy . I am relentless in discovering him, implacable in hunting
him, merciless in destroying him . Yet I welcome all who confess their malfeasance and seek to mend
their ways, for they grant strength to me, and to the Camarilla .
1f I shed blood, + is for the Camarilla . 1f 1 take life or unlife, + is for the Camarilla . 1f I die,
is for the Camarilla . Let the Camarilla raise up its mighty fist and strike me down should I violate
this sacred trust .
This I swear, by my blood, by my sire's blood, by my unlife and by the unlives of my childer, For
so long as the camarilla honors me to serve .
* The recitation of sire and grandsire is not an ironclad requirement of the oath . Those Kindred
who know their lineage and still respect pedigree - that is, the vast majority of those who become
justicars - include it . Those who are ignorant of their lineage, or do not wish it known, are not
required to speak this portion of the line, though failure to do so is frowned upon by the other justicars
and the Inner Circle .
Some justicars require their archons to take a similar oath when they enter service, though the
Traditions of the Camarilla itself do not mandate this . Some among the elders believe that the line "by the
unlives of my childer" also includes archons ; that is, the archons of a justicar found guilty of treason (though
such a thing has happened only once) should share in his punishment . This sentiment is strong, but not
strong enough that a truly valuable archon couldn't argue his way out of trouble - or at least out of
execution - should such an unlikely scenario occur .
a position of leadership over his fellows . The
Ventrue note that it is a distinction of their own
elaborate system of honorifics, adapted for use by
the Camarilla as a whole . Although the "rank,"
such as it is, doesn't formally stick with the recipient
after the relevant endeavor is completed,
some archons have indeed borne the honorific
long after it was first appended, at least in the
minds of their contemporaries . Theo Bell retains
the title in the minds of many archons, though
the taking of New York is still fresh enough that
the designation may or may not last . Others,
including the Nosferatu Federico DiPadua, the
Brujah Anna Petrova and the Malkavian Rudiger
Kleiss also hold the title informally .
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
1 7
Because she has specifically been given command
over an operation by a justicar, a praetor is
considered to outrank all other archons . Those who
retain the title informally once the mission has
ended hold a slightly more ambiguous position . No
formal tradition requires other archons to submit to
a praetor after his official stint in that position has
ended, but serious social consequences might result
for those who refuse to do so . The rank of praetor
means nothing to anyone outside the archons, and
grants the holder no special privilege when dealing
with other Kindred. Of course, a praetor of the
Ventrue distinction might have something to say
should a Kindred choose not to afford her the respect
she is due. . . .
-.
%QW21",i
In situations where a praetor or project leader has
not been formally assigned, the archons involved
usually defer to the eldest present, though a younger
archon with a better reputation or more specialized
knowledge might be chosen instead . Struggles for
command over an operation are uncommon, but entire
missions can collapse when they do arise .
ARCHON
This is the "standard" designation . It applies to any
archon who does not specifically fall into a different
rank or category.
SERVIRE
An informal title, a servire is simply an archon's
archon. Just as the justicars require agents to go
where they cannot and handle tasks to which they
can't devote their immediate attention, so too do
archons often feel the need for assistants . Servires
can be anyone - Kindred, ghoul or even mere
kine, though this last is uncommon - and are
chosen for a variety of skills and needs . Ghouls
serve frequently as servires, and are particularly
useful due to the loyalty enforced by the blood
bond. An archon investigating the prince of an
unfamiliar city might recruit a local coterie as
servires so that they can guide him around the area,
pass along inside info and, if necessary, watch his
back in a firefight . A Nosferatu who is a talented
hacker might be "deputized" to assist the archon
breaking into the local Giovanni's encrypted files .
Becoming a servire doesn't bestow any particular
rights or privileges, though some degree of status is
implicit with the responsibility, and most servires
serve only for the duration of a specific endeavor .
Some archons use the same servires regularly, however,
building up a set of skilled agents over the
course of time . These servires are watched closely,
by the archon herself and, eventually, by her justicar
superior. Many new archons are chosen from those
who have proven their value over the years as
servires .
SPECIAL UNITS
AND BRANCHES OF SERVICE
Most archons are just archons, if "just" is a word
that can reasonably be applied to these Kindred . Like
police and military forces the world over, however,
some tasks simply cannot be left to the "average"
agent . Operations of such a specialized nature require
specialized personnel .
These divisions are not large ; many of them
consist of only a single coterie of archons at any
given time, and some cease to exist for years on
end. As with the ranks above, some are formal
ARCHON S AND TEMPLARS
18
designations, fully recognized and acknowledged
by the Camarilla's political body . Others are informal
titles, granted to the archon specialists by their
fellows or by other, usually younger, Kindred .
Feel free to create other divisions or departments
beyond those listed below, but beware of going overboard.
There doesn't need to be a specialized unit of
archons for every tiny eventuality that might crop up .
For the vast majority of tasks, "normal" archons should
prove sufficient .
ALASTORS
Easily the most renowned "branch" of the archons,
alastors are those Kindred who hunt the Red
List: those criminals, called Anathema, who have
made the Camarilla's Most Wanted . Calling the
alastors a subset of the archons is not entirely accurate,
though the vast majority of alastors are indeed
taken from the ranks of the justicars' appointees .
Any Kindred who brings one of the Anathema
down is automatically recruited as an alastor (with
or without her consent), and is expected to devote
herself to continuing that practice . Alastors answer
personally to the Inner Circle, not to the justicars,
and are rumored to serve other purposes besides
stalking Red List criminals . Alastors are technically
above local princes' interpretations of Traditions
and, unlike archons, are given means to prove it : a
blood-and-ink tattoo on the right palm, called alternately
the Trophy or the Mark of the Beast . This
mark, usually hidden beneath a pair of gloves, grants
the alastor certain benefits and immunities from
local persecution .
The alastors are technically a secret organization,
though the secret grows more and more open
as time passes . Even though only a select few -
justicars, high-ranking archons and praetors, as
well as some princes - recognize the mark for what
it is, no organization that uses a tattoo for identification
can remain entirely hidden . While most
Kindred remain ignorant of the exact nature and
purpose of the alastors, the existence of a group of
archons devoted to hunting Anathema is now
widely recognized .
For more on the alastors, the Anathema and the
Red List, see the Guide to the Camarilla .
DOGCATCHERS
Obviously an informal classification, this designation
is attached to those archons who have
proven their knowledge of and ability to combat
the Lupines . This isn't a simple matter of surviving
battle with the werewolves, or even emerging victorious.
Dogcatchers (also called the K-9 unit by
modern Kindred) make a habit of such practices,
CHAIN OF COMMAND
The justicars clearly outrank every other Kindred in the Camarilla, with the exception of the Inner
Circle and possibly (at present) the Warlord Karsh . In theory, as the justicars' proxies, archons should
share that exalted position .
Such is rarely the case . As with every other aspect of Camarilla society, politics and status overshadow
all other considerations . The archons regularly deal with several specific offices and positions of authority,
and they have no hard and fast rules on how to go about it . For more on the interaction between locals
and archons, see Chapter Four .
Prince
The prince-archon relationship is nebulous at best . On a theoretical level, the archon speaks with the
voice of his justicar, and the prince should acquiesce if she knows what's good for her . In reality, few but
the weakest and most harried of princes suffer an archon to march in and start giving orders . Most princes
treat archons with no small amount of respect, and will usually take their suggestions under advisement .
They expect the same in return, however . When they don't receive it (or feel as if they're not receiving
it), things can turn ugly .
A prince never wants an archon to leave her city unhappily . The last thing she needs is for the
justicar to decide that she's hiding something and thus send more archons to investigate - or, Caine
forbid, choose to investigate personally . At the same time, a prince who is particularly concerned
with appearances (that is, most of them) or a particularly powerful ruler is unlikely to relinquish even
a semblance of influence . Most archons are wise enough not to push the issue, and are willing to serve
as advisors or field commanders when working in a prince's domain . Those who do push - either
because they are operating against the prince, because they feel they are better suited for the job, or
simply out of ambition or egotism - occasionally don't leave the city . The risk of angering a justicar
by "vanishing" an archon is great, even if the prince can construct a believable cover story, and is
likely to result in the arrival of additional investigators, but at least it buys the prince (or other guilty
party) some time to hide the evidence .
Primogen
No easy way exists of determining whether or not an archon functionally "outranks" a member of the
city's primogen . Such interaction is essentially no different than that between any other two Kindred .
Whoever has the greater status is due the greater respect . Again, the archon technically has authority, but
most realize that alienating one of the primogen - and possibly, by extension, the local majority of an
entire clan - is rarely worth the hassle .
Sheriffs and Scourges
Archons have a substantial amount of contact with Kindred occupying these positions, in much the
same way federal agents and local police work together - and often with the same degree (or lack) of
mutual admiration . Sheriffs and scourges often feel, correctly or not, that the presence of an archon
indicates a failure of some sort on their own part, and sometimes grow resentful . Unlike the situation
with prince and primogen, it is quite clear that an archon outranks the local peacekeepers, and a scourge
or sheriff who openly flouts an archon's orders is likely to find himself in seriously hot water . It is not
unknown for the locals to subtly hinder operations on which they're supposed to be assisting - often
at the behest of the prince, should she also be involved in whatever event the archon is investigating .
Nor is it completely unheard of for archons to suffer "accidents" in the field when working with
reluctant sheriffs, though such attempted backstabbing more commonly results in the sheriff finding
himself peeled like an onion and left for the sun .
Sheriffs and scourges cooperate with archons for the most part, simply because it's the most logical
policy. Given a choice between disobeying an archon or the prince, however, most of them choose to side
with the prince (unless they see a way to advance their own agenda by doing otherwise, of course) . The
archon may speak for a more powerful master, but the prince is the one they've got to work with and answer
to on a nightly basis .
CHAPTER ONE : THE NOBLE CAUSE
1 9
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
20
deliberately seeking out those Lupines that infringe
on Kindred territory and either
"convincing" them to leave or slaying them outright
. Archons who fit this description - and
they are, for obvious reasons, very few and far
between - know far more about werewolf behavior,
culture, belief and powers than most, if
not all, other Kindred . The dogcatchers often
operate as a single coterie, even though they
formally serve separate justicars . Despite their
unofficial status, word of the dogcatchers' skills
has spread far enough that many princes ask for
them specifically when requesting assistance in
dealing with "wildlife" incursions . The justicars
and the Inner Circle are very near to declaring
these werewolf specialists a formal and recognized
division of archons (though they will
presumably establish a more dignified title for
the position) .
Rumor insists that the dogcatchers hold at
least one Lupine prisoner in a hidden haven of
some sort. This is supposedly the source of the
dogcatchers' detailed knowledge of and familiarity
with the Lupines . How the archons managed such
a feat, and what methods they could possibly use to
keep such a vicious prisoner in check, are details
that said whispers conveniently neglect, and few
Kindred with a modicum of common sense believe
such things .
Then again, those Kindred with substantially more
than a modicum of common sense know better than to
dismiss anything out of hand . . . .
DOPPELGANGERS
Another informal designation, "doppelganger"
refers to a very deep-cover agent . They are all
masters of disguise, impersonation and intelligence
gathering, both of the mundane variety and through
mastery of Disciplines such as Auspex, Dominate,
Obfuscate and - in the case of one specific archon,
if hearsay is to be believed - Vicissitude .
Most doppelgangers have willingly gone through
intense indoctrination and mental conditioning
to avoid giving themselves away under questioning,
torture and even Dominate, and nearly all are
blood bound to their justicar to further strengthen
their ties of loyalty .
Although doppelgangers are sometimes used to
gather intelligence on the Sabbat or other non-
Camarilla factions and clans like the Followers of
Set, the justicars and the Inner Circle normally
prefer to risk less valuable agents than archons in
such endeavors . By far the most common operation
undertaken by a doppelganger is internal security,
r
gathering information on the activities of Camarilla
Kindred. This most frequently focuses on princes
and other elders in positions of authority, though
doppelganger presence among anarchs is not unknown.
The favored technique of a doppelganger is
to observe a particular individual who is already a
close ally (or believed to be a close ally) of the
Kindred under suspicion . This individual is studied
and researched until the archon believes she can
pass herself off as that individual, convincingly and
under moderately close scrutiny. At this point, the
subject is "removed from play" (a euphemism that
usually means staked and stuffed into cold storage
until the exchange act is complete, though some
who were deemed guilty of sufficient wrongdoing
against the Camarilla are simply executed), and the
doppelganger takes her place . In this fashion, the
archon can quickly get close to the true target of the
investigation and uncover details that could not be
learned through other means . Some of the most
successful doppelgangers have spent years in an
undercover identity without being exposed .
Even the most well-trained and alert observer
cannot learn every detail about a subject, of course
- if they could, there would be no need for
doppelgangers at all, for they could learn all they
needed simply by studying their primary target .
Charades of this nature unravel as often as not,
even when attempted by the best of the best . For
obvious reasons, many other Kindred who have
heard of them loathe doppelgangers with a violent
passion. A doppelganger whose true identity is
exposed had better have one hell of a tight escape
plan set up, since the odds are overwhelming she'll
be dead before the night is out .
E DIVISION
The newest classification among the archons,
E Division - Enigma - was initiated only within
the past several decades at the behest of Karl
Schrekt, the former Tremere justicar . (Schrekt was
not responsible for naming the division - that
honor was granted the younger Kindred who organized
and implemented the plan - and was
moderately dissatisfied with the chosen title . He'd
be even less happy to learn that many of the more
flippant neonates refer to E Division as the "XFiles
.") E Division's raison d'etre is the investigation
of paranormal or unidentified phenomena that
may threaten the Camarilla, but fall outside the
general experience of the sect . This can include
anything from fae or the new breed of "immortal"
(about which E Division knows almost nothing) to
truly bizarre and possibly unique horrors that lack
both precedent and context .
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
2 1
Less focused on combat-related abilities (though
still fully capable of holding their own against many
opponents), most archons of E Division are investigators
and detectives of the highest ability . E Division
is made up primarily of young ancillae . They often
focus their efforts on amassing a variety of useful skills
and abilities rather than specializing in any given
area, and make use of modern technology that elder
Kindred fear to touch . E Division operatives must be
capable of reacting instantly to peculiar or unexpected
phenomena, and are rarely given the
opportunity to repeat mistakes . Most other archons
do not accord E Division much respect, tending to
look down on its members as the "babies" of their
order . This attitude slowly changes on a nightly basis
as the Camarilla discovers that more mysteries are
left in the world than even their wisest members had
imagined, and many stagnant elders grow thankful
that some archons are already prepared to deal with
such oddities.
JOSIANS
Named for the Biblical King Josiah, who put an
end to the sacrificial worship of the god Moloch in
the Vale of Gehenna, the Josians are an order of
archons who focus on rooting out the various
Gehenna cults that spring up throughout the
Camarilla. Recruitment as a Josian demands no
prerequisite set of skills, though most are familiar
with a fair amount of Noddist lore, the better to
uncover those who believe in such things . They are
united by purpose, rather than by ability . Standard
procedure is for a single agent to slowly work his
way into the membership of a Gehenna cult, biding
his time until the opportunity arises to catch all
(or at least most) of the participants in a single
location . At this point the rest of the team is called
in to excise the heresy .
To the vast majority of Kindred who know of
them- and, indeed, to most within their own ranks
- that's the end of it . The Josians have, however, a
hidden purpose, known only to the Inner Circle, the
justicars and the eldest and highest-ranked members
of the order itself. They do seek out Gehenna
cults, but their true purpose is not to halt the spread
of such "heretical" beliefs and practices . The leaders
of the Josians use the opportunity afforded by these
operations to study the lore and the practices of
these cults, searching for evidence that they might be
right . While the Camarilla maintains its disbelief in
the Antediluvians and the coming Gehenna when
dealing with its own rank and file, those at the
highest levels suspect otherwise . Not all believe
that Gehenna is imminent (though many who
doubted have begun to question their skepticism in
CI
the face of the Week of Nightmares), but all admit
the necessity of being prepared . Thus the eldest of
the Josians abscond with any true evidence or valuable
lore confiscated in their raids on the cults,
swiftly passing the materials on to the justicars and
the Inner Circle .
The Inner Circle knows full well that the
Camarilla would collapse from the bottom up if
word spread that the "myths" of Gehenna and the
Third Generation might not be so mythical after all,
and that the masters of the sect have known it since
the beginning . The true purpose of the Josians,
therefore, is one of the most closely guarded secrets
of the Camarilla, and the mere hint that someone
might have been loose-lipped has occasionally resulted
in mass assassinations .
QUAESITORS
Unique among the factions of archons, the
Quaesitors are a single-clan (or at least very nearly
single-clan) group . Made up mostly of Tremere
thaumaturges, the Quaesitors serve the Camarilla
as roving judges, mediators and tacticians in all
matters magical . Their forte lies in dealing with
Sabbat koldun and Setite sorcerers, mortal mages
and even rogue Tremere within the Camarilla's
own ranks .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
22
If any group of archons is less trusted than the
doppelgangers, it is the Quaesitors . Few among the
Kindred believe that these Warlocks have truly placed
the good of the Camarilla above their own objectives
and those of their clan. Some vampires maintain that
the Quaesitors' true purpose is to hunt down and
destroy all non-Tremere thaumaturges . Even the name
"Quaesitor" comes from the Tremere, having been
both the name of a now-defunct secret society within
the clan and that of a House of Hermetic mages
centuries before that.
As the Quaesitors often stand alone while holding
the line against sorcerous threats, the justicars
are taking steps to make the group seem more trustworthy
to other Kindred . Quaesitors only rarely
serve under the Tremere Anastasz di Zagreb, and
the justicars require them to submit to blood bonds
more frequently than other archons . The justicars
are also attempting to increase the non-Tremere
presence in the faction, but as a Quaesitor is required,
by definition, to possess a mastery of blood
magic, these efforts have so far proven largely difficult.
Those few blood sorcerers in the Camarilla
who aren't Tremere are unwilling to put their unlives
in the hands of companions who see them as little
more than rivals.
'4
`
PERSONNEL
Partial transcript of a briefing given to new
"recruits" by Archon Kirsten Bellamy of Clan Toreador
; handwritten comments added after the fact
by Archon Zachariah Shale of Clan Tremere
It takes a very special sort of Kindred to become
- and succeed as - an archon. It's a vicious,
dangerous task . The best rise to the top, often by
climbing over the bodies of their predecessors who
weren't quite good enough . This is the unlife you've
opted for: to serve the Camarilla in ways that your
brethren are too weak or too cowardly to do, and to
put the good and the glory of the sect above your
own petty needs . I commend you for having the
courage to choose this path, though it remains to be
seen if you'll have the skill, the fortitude and the will
to follow it .
You represent the epitome of what it means
to be Kindred . You have all been chosen, for
whatever reasons, to stand beside the justicars and
your fellow archons and bring order and stability to
a society that doesn't always desire it . You have
recognized, as I did, that the Camarilla must survive,
and must flourish, if we are to survive these
tumultuous nights .
Pull the other one, Kirsten . 1t plays Mozart .
No single or specific type of Kindred becomes
(or seeks to become) an archon . unless they' ve
instituted a policy of cloning while I wasn't
watching, we're all individuals, just like everyone
else . l his means we've all got our own reasons for
"enlisting ." Still, most archons and potential
archons can be broken down into flour basic types .
Listing these primary "reasons" for becoming an
archon is pretty close to an exercise in futility,
but it provides a good starting point for you to
analyze your compatriots.
Some of us actually do believe the patriotic,
jingoistic ya-ya Kirsten's spouting . These Kindred
believe to the depths 6f their souls that the
camarilla represents the ultimate good for all
WHO WATCHES THE WATCHMEN?
A seventh division supposedly exists, heard of only in rumor and spoken of only in the softest whispers .
These archons answer to no justicar but, like the alastors, serve the Inner Circle directly . They have no fixed
appearance or identifiable characteristics ; they bear no "Mark of the Beast" to show who they serve . They
can be any Kindred on the street, from the skankiest nightclub-hopping Brujah to the Toreador supposedly
enraptured by that garish painting at tonight's Elysium . You'll never know they're around - unless you step
too far out of line . Then you won't be around either .
They are eyes, the Inner Circle's internal affairs division . Emissaries of the Inner Circle recruit each
individually ; some are drawn from the ranks of the archons, some from other positions such as sheriff or
scourge, and some held no official capacity before they were summoned to serve .
Despite the fearful whispers of the neonates, and even paranoid ancillae and elders, eyes (the
term is singular when referring to the bureau as a whole) has no real interest in the activities of the
average Kindred . They don't police the streets to prevent breaches of the Masquerade, nor do they
battle the Sabbat or bring down scheming elders. That's what sheriffs and archons are for . Eyes
polices the archons themselves .
Archons go bad sometimes . Power corrupts, and Kindred are more susceptible to such enticements than
most mortals . Eyes keeps a careful watch over the Camarilla's peacekeepers, waiting for the slightest flicker
of disloyalty . Should one of the justicars' agents - or even a justicar himself -have to be brought down,
eyes is responsible for doing it .
Even in action, eyes stays in the shadows . Skilled at assassination, sabotage and the fatal set-up,
open conflict in the streets is not their way. Chances are that no one knows it when they do involve
themselves . The traitorous archon simply vanishes under mysterious circumstances, or else runs up
against a Sabbat pack or den of Lupines just a bit larger than he was led to believe .
This doesn't mean that archons simply drop dead if they try to pursue their own agendas; the Inner
Circle isn't foolish enough to expect any Kindred to completely ignore her own ambitions . Only if the
archon's actions prove dangerous to the Camarilla as a whole - if, for instance, she's sold out to the
Sabbat or has been compromised by the Setites -is eyes likely to step in . Nor can even a secretive force
like eyes be everywhere at once .
Nevertheless, even for archons, it pays to remember that there's always someone bigger . Someone
who watches . . . .
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
23
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
24
Kindred, and must be protected from all threats,
internal and external, foreign and domestic . For all
I scoff at them, these fanatics often make the best
archons, at least when they're willing to think for
themselves. others buy into the mentality so deeply
that they can't blink without written permission in
triplicate from their justicar . those don 't tend to
last out their first year, and that's the sort I'm
afraid Kirsten's closed-minded diatribe is most likely
to create .
the second sort become archons for the same
reason other Kindred become sheriffs, seneschals,
primogen or princes : power. Few positions of
authority in the Camarilla have as much leeway
as that of archon, and there are fewer still that
ancillae and young elders can reasonably hope to
achieve . Don't assume that means archons of this
type are bad at what they do . Most know that if
they want to maintain their rank, let alone achieve
more, they've got to hold up their end . these can
be the most relentless archons, in fact, since
they're more concerned with racking up successes
than the are with following the finer points 0f
the traditions
Bullies and thugs make up the third grouping .
these Kindred like to hit things and make them die . Now,
if some random Lick does that to some other random
Lick on the streets, it causes problems . In addition to
drawing attention, it may violate some silly edict the
prince or sheriff established in order to (gasp!) keep
order. the risk of running into someone who's bigger and
meaner than you are is something to consider, as well .
If you're an archon, though, you're not only allowed to
do this sort of thing, it's encouraged (so long as you're
pounding the right heads) . You've even got a group of
other bruisers to back you up if you bite off more than
you can suck . I don't know which is sadder: the thought
that this is actually a viable reason for people to
become "cops," or the fact that the Camarilla rewards
them to do it .
then we have those of us who can see that the
emperor has no clothes, but are willing to acknowledge
that he's still the emperor . Ve. . . er, they, realize
the camarilla has more than its share of flaws, that
the ivory tower is cracked and twisted, but also that
it's a far better alternative than anything else the
Kindred have cooked up in thousands of years. 1f
anything, these archons fight even harder for the
Camarilla than do the fanatics mentioned above, since
they know that the sect teeters on an abyss the
i
G
a
militants are unwilling or unable to see. on the other
hand, they're less likely to forego their own personal
agendas in the process; no reason not to pad one's
bets, yes?
CLANS
Even though some Kindred pedigrees are clearly
superior to others, the Camarilla has not yet established
any restrictions regarding the acceptance or
rejection of archons based on clan . I suppose that, if
one is going to permit every clan its own justicar,
one must permit archons as well, though I can't
fathom why the Inner Circle tolerates some of
these . . . people .
Still, each clan brings its own advantages (and
shortcomings) to the position. These are all heavily
based upon stereotypes and similar assumptions, of
course, but I imagine this will at least give you an idea
of what to expect from your coterie .
ve'll pretend not to notice that the hypocrite
maintains with one breath that certain "pedigrees"
should be restricted from holding the
position of archon, and in the next warns her
audience against putting too much stock in clan
stereotypes . Or that some of those pedigrees got
where they are tonight by murdering others . We're
generous that way.
I imagine I ought to do this alphabetically, if only
for clarity's sake . That starts us with the Brujah .
What should I say about the Brujah that you
don't already know? I don't believe anyone's taken
a formal census, but I'd not be surprised to learn
that more archons claim descent from the Brujah
than any other lineage . They're some of the best
soldiers we have. A lot of them are stronger than
your average ox, and they're almost as fast as we
are . Not necessarily the best when it comes to
planning, but few Kindred are better at implementation
. I wouldn't volunteer to follow their orders,
but you could do worse than to have several of
them standing beside (or before) you when the
lead and the fists start flying .
Vhat a Crock. Yes, we've all met the "street
punk Brujah, the sort who enjoy nothing so much
as beating their enemies - or their own heads, if
you get them pissed enough - against brick walls .
they're a minority of the clan, though, and
definitely a minority of Brujah archons . Much as I
hate to hold him up as a positive example of
anything, I'm forced to once again mention then
Bell, who not only led the assault on New York but
planned much of it out as well . their favored
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
25
Disciplines are no hindrance in battIe either .
Although her assessment is pathetically na ve in
its details, Kirsten's ultimate conclusion is fairly
accurate: the Brujah are a good bunch to have at
your side, and a bad Iot to be facing off against
unless you're behind something very solid.
Due to, ahem, recent reorganizations of
Camarilla positions, the Malkavians come next in
the list . The very notion of Malkavian archons
makes me shudder, and I can only assume it was
members of that same clan who pushed to allow
such a thing, since no one else would be crazy
enough. The best thing I can say about Malkavian
archons is that they aren't common, so you
shouldn't have to deal with them often.
vhile it's true that proportionally few archons
are Malkavians, claiming that clan members are
automatically unable to function in the role is
ludicrous . Plenty of Malkavians are adequately
functional (at least in all ways that matter), and
as determined to fight For the Camarilla as anyone
else . A Malkavian agent actually brings several
advantages to an operation . the so-called Lunatics
are nearly as good at sneaking about as the
Nosferatu, and aren't quite as obvious when spotted .
that, in combination with their Auspex and their
rather horrific mental abilities, makes them amazing
spies and gatherers of information . theyre unpredictable,
which can cause problems for their allies as
well as their enemies, but you take what advantages
you can find. Perhaps their greatest strength,
though, is the one that Kirsten has unintentionally
hit upon in her foolish tirade - nobody expects a
Malkavian to be an archon . Assuming their mental
quirks don't interfere, a Malkavian can stay undercover
far longer than anyone else no matter how
skilled, simply because no one ever suspects them of
being a "cop ."
I must acknowledge that the Nosferatu have their
uses . The Sewer Rats have means of acquiring information
that astound even those of us who know to
expect it, and they're no slouches when it comes to
fisticuffs either . One could even make a case that
Nosferatu agents and archons are directly responsible
for many of the Camarilla's victories over its foes,
bringing us vital intelligence that would otherwise
have been impossible to acquire .
Now if only they could be convinced to restrict
their presence to the sewers and enemy territory,
and not the conclaves and Elysium, I think everyone
would be happy.
Someone's not taking her own advice . She's talking
about a clan that has mastered the arts of sneaking
and eavesdropping, and that can e ven send their pet
rodents to listen in on a conversation and report back .
'Perhaps, then, Kirsten ought be a bit more circumspect
when explaining how she Feels about the
'Nosferatu. vho do you suppose gave me this
transcript in the First place?
The ironic thing is that the Rats have developed
such a reputation as informants-for-hire that they
don't even have to sneak to learn what theyned
l here's this neat little trick I've seen Gracie
welasquez pull more than once. She's actually
walked up to her quarry (or his underlings), obvious
as you please, and told him something like, "Ve
understand you've got something working under the
table . I may be able to help you - for a price ." Most
Kindred can't tell one fugly from another, so the
all tend to assume she's a local, out to make a buck
or a boon in standard Nosferatu fashion . No one's yet
spilled their entire scheme, but you can pick up a
lot by listening to the questions they ask - or
avoid - when trying to purchase information to aid
their cause .
Some people are surprised to learn that the Toreador
make up a substantial number of the Camarilla's
archons. I can't imagine why . We, of all clans, have the
most vested interest in the peaceful coexistence of
Kindred and kine, and it is this way of life (or unlife)
that bloodthirsty heathens like the Sabbat would destroy.
Is it any surprise that so many of us turn our
not-inconsiderable talents toward the protection of
this greatest of social constructs?
It would be the height of arrogance to claim that
we make the best archons, and I'm certainly more
than willing to acknowledge the contributions of
others. The Toreador do bring benefits to the archons,
however, that no other clan can boast . We,
even more than the Ventrue, have substantial contact
and influence in mortal society . As the taking
of New York so eloquently demonstrated, the teeming
masses of kine make powerful weapons, to say
nothing of informants . They are our keepers in
many ways, for it is their society in which we must
dwell - and, of course, their blood on which we
feed . The Kindred who most easily moves among
the kine has, by definition, all tactical advantage .
Our speed makes us deadly in physical combat, our
Auspex proves invaluable for scouting and investigation,
and our use of Presence allows us mastery of
social arenas .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
26
You blithering, self-aggrandizing muckraker .
Don't get me wrong, every benefit Kirsten
mentions is viable enough . My amusement stems from
the fact that she's made absolutely certain to leave
no advantage unturned when it comes to the Toreador)
yet she barely touches on the positive attributes 0f
the other clans.
She also hash t mentioned that the toreador
propensity toward sudden fascination can prove a
hindrance on the battlefield . odds are that Toreador
archons Aran ,t going to find anything "beautiful" in
the midst of combat, and most of them have
sufficient will to avoid succumbing to their bloodline's
affliction . Still, you don't want the Toreador to be
guarding your back when circumstances conspire to
render him catatonic .
I'm not entirely certain what to say about the
Tremere archons . On the one hand, they're abominably
effective at what they do . That Thaumaturgy
mumbo-jumbo they do is scary as all hell, but it's a lot
scarier to whoever it's aimed at . You'll find very few
contingencies a Warlock can't get you out of- if he's
got the time to prepare .
On the other hand, they're not nearly as effective
in the midst of a firefight or an unanticipated conflict,
since so much of what they do requires all sorts
of chanting and symbols and burned feathers and
funny clothes. They're a creepy bunch, make no
mistake. More importantly, I'm never entirely certain
how far I can trust one of the Tremere, archon or
no. The clan is way too insular, and too fanatical
about loyalty to their "Council of Seven" for my
tastes . It's hard to work with someone when you can't
be certain they've got your best interests - or those
of the Camarilla - at heart .
How little she knows of us. while our rituals are
rather time-consuming, it's not as though they re the
only form our magic takes. Like Any Discipline,
Thaumaturgy is as effective in combat - or
ineffective - as the practitioner. Nor is it the only
Discipline we have to draw on, no matter that it's all
we're known for.
She has some valid points, though . A lot of
archons are less than thrilled to work with me because
of such a trifling matter as whose blood passed my
lips at the time of death . ft's silly, but it means that
our uses are often limited . Tremere archons rarely
serve as praetors or coterie leaders, and often find
themselves relegated to advisory positions or sorcerous
"heavy artillery ."
4
Ve are, of course, fully as loyal to the Camarilla
as any other archons, and anyone who tries to tell you
differently is lying her obnoxious ass off .
We come, finally, to the Blue Bloods . The
Ventrue like to think that they run the entire show
- and they do, to the extent that the other clans
allow them to shoulder the burdens we can't be
bothered with - so it should come as no great
shock that a pretty good number of them serve as
archons . Ventrue can be surprisingly effective on
the battlefield, since they can take a pounding like
you wouldn't believe, but their main strength lies
in organization . Planners and plotters
extraordinaire, the Ventrue have almost as much
pull amongst the kine as the Toreador . Kings and
diplomats, the Ventrue are often the most effective
archons at dealing with Kindred in positions
of power such as local princes .
Kirsten has, for a change, roughly covered the
bases . 'ventrue archons often prefer to serve in
FOR THE STORYTELLER: FAMILY TIPS
Every once in a while, someone - be it a
player of the game or a character in it -brings up
the notion of "clan-matching" justicars and their
archons . That is, Brujah archons with Pascek,
Ventrue with Lucinde, and so forth .
While this consideration seems logical at
face value, don't feel the need to be limited by
it . To the Kindred, restricting a justicar to
archons of her own clan is no more logical than
for a police captain to work only with officers
of his own race or religion . The Camarilla
didn't actively decide against such a policy so
much as never considered it . Justicars choose
their archons based on ability ; any other restriction
causes problems and weakens the
Camarilla as a whole .
Exceptions, of course, have occurred over
the course of history . Some justicars have indeed
chosen their archons from the ranks of a
specific clan - or, more commonly, deliberately
avoided archons of a specific clan . This is
an individual choice, however, and does not
represent any sort of cohesive policy on the
part of the Camarilla or the Inner Circle .
Justicars who show a marked preference for
archons of their own clan tend to be mistrusted
(why limit their options so severely if they
don't have some outside agenda?), and rarely
find themselves reelected at the end of their
thirteen-year term .
CHAPTER ONE : THE NOBLE CAUSE
27
leadership positions - which is not a bad thing, since
many of them have an undeniable skill at command.
About the only downside I've seen to working with
'ventrue archons - other than the assumption that
they call the shots For the coterie - is the occasional
danger of finding yourself in the field with a starving
'ventrue who can't Iocate a store of his blood of choice .
I've seen it happen, and it's not fun to be around-
1 find it distressing that Kirsten fails t0
elaborate further on the cans and bloodlines . while the
Camarilla's six primary clans certainly account for
the majority of archons, they are hardly the only ones
who serve.
Until the unfortunate departure of the Gangrel
- and no matter what spin-control our superiors may
put on the matter, it is unfortunate - the
outlanders made up a substantial portion of our
forces. Travel from city to city, see the world, work
alone or in small groups, tear the ever-loving crap out
of people; is it any wonder the role of archon appealed
to so many Gangrel? Since Xaviar threw his tantrum
and stormed off) his clan's presence in our ranks has
diminished dramatically . Some Gangrel remain in the
Camarilla those who had the brains not to mindlessly
follow their brethren . they are distrusted, looked
down on, mocked . Still, some of them serve the
justicars as they did before this whole fiasco began,
and they are, to all evidence I can acquire, just as
faithful as ever .
Some of the Gangrel archons who left were privy
to certain information to which no one outside the
ranks of the archons - let alone outside the
camarilla - should have access . Suffice it t0 say
that these particular Gangrel may have left the
camarilla, but we've quite thoroughly ensured that
they didn't go running to the Sabbat . Sometimes I
hate this job.
other Kindred claim membership in the camarilla
as well, though they are often overlooked . Many of
the so-called independent clans and bloodlines have
representatives in our ranks . Again, I have no
knowledge of any formal count, but I know that
Lithrac, with whom I've worked in the past, is one
of at least two or three Samedi archons employed
by the justicars . I imagine that Kirsten, given her
unfortunate prejudices regarding the Nosferatu,
would quite probably have a fit of some sort if she
was forced to work with one of these less-thancohesive
archons . I'd pay to see that. Accuracy
forces me to mention that the Gargoyles also have
representatIves among us, though I'd be shocked if
there were more than two or three of them either,
and I question their ability to serve in any capacity
other than muscle .
Madam GUil once employed a Setite among her
retinue, hideous as the thought might be . I've no way
of knowing if he works for her still, since I have little
enough to do with her on a regular basis. I can only hope
that she's seen the danger in such an arrangement and
taken steps . Everything ignorant Kindred say about
trusting a Tremere as an archon is true when spoken
about the Serpents .
I have even worked alongside one young(-
looking) woman who may have been one of the
so-ca led Lasombra antitribu . She was certainly
capable 6f all sorts of interesting tricks with the
ambient shadows . 1f she is Lasombra, she is the
only one to hold the position of archon. .. to my
knowledge, anyway .
1f any of the other clans and bloodlines - Ravnos,
for instance, or that strange little singing clan -
serve as archons, I've never had the opportunity to
meet them. No self-respecting justicar would ever
permit one of the clanless to serve her, but I suspect
that some of them have shed their self-respect, since
I'm starting to hear rumors about Caitiff archons .
oh, yes . There's always...
THE ASSAMITE EQUATION
By now you've all heard at least some of the
rumors . "The Assamites have joined the camarilla!"
"The Camarilla has allied with the Assamites against
the Sabbat!" "The Assamites have conquered the
camarilla!"
No. Vhat has happened, as best I can determine, is
that a faction of Assamites - they call themselves
"schismatic" - have abandoned the fold and sought
refuge in the Ivory Tower. After a substantial
amount of debate and consideration, such refuge has
been granted, at least on a provisional basis .
For the record, I believe this is one of the most
dangerous notions the Inner Circle has ever pursued .
That said, I am forced to admit that these socalled
Assassins have surprised me . It seems there's
far more to them - well, to some of them - than
mindless blood-thirst and violence . I have recently
met political- and corporate-minded Assamites to
give any' ventrue a run for his money, and I have been
introduced to blood sorcerers who, while probably
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
28
inferior to Tremere thaumaturges, nevertheless
show a startling amount of promise and power .
oh, we got the ravening psychopaths too . I was just
saying that they're not all we got .
These Assamites, for all that they cannot be
trusted, represent an opportunity too valuable for
the justicars to ignore . Even before the schism,
Assamite archons were not unheard of . Justicars
have, in the past, employed the Assassins as
archons to undertake tasks that the justicar's
other agents were either unable or ill-suited to
perform . Such arrangements were usually shortterm,
bought and paid for in the same fashion as any
other Assamite contract.
Tonight, with the schismatic Assamites apparently
desperate to prove their loyalty, this system
changes . All sorts of Assamites - blood sorcerers,
warriors and so-called viziers - have volunteered or
been selected to take on the role of archon without the
standard demand for payment in blood . They are
behaving just as would any other Kindred of the
camarilla who felt the call to serve . At least three
of the six justicars have already accepted Assamites
into their service, and their operational record - what
little exists of it so far - has been phenomenal. unless
something changes, it looks like the Assamites, and
therefore Assamite archons, are here to stay .
I still don't trust them, though .
End transcript
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
A concern shared by all archons, the justicars and
even the Inner Circle itself: how can you trust a Cainite,
an inherently self-serving creature, to put the good of
the sect above his own? How do you ensure loyalty?
Some justicars make a practice of blood bonding
their archons, but this approach doesn't always
work. First and foremost, a large number of potential
archons are simply unwilling to submit themselves
to thralldom . The justicars could reject such candidates
out of hand, but this would seriously deplete
the talent pool from which they draw . All too often,
the sort of Kindred the justicar requires for the job
is exactly the sort of Kindred most likely to refuse a
blood bond .
Even should a justicar's archons willingly submit
to thralldom, these bonds are notoriously
difficult to maintain . Most archons spend a great
deal of time traveling the world, troubleshooting
and keeping the peace throughout Camarilla territory.
While some archons travel with their justicars
on a regular basis (as is the case with much of
Madam Guil's entourage), most of them go for
months or even years without ever seeing their
justicar . Blood bonds weaken over time, and archons
tend to be relatively strong-willed,
circumstances that conspire to make blood bonding
an archon an unreliable proposition at best .
Some justicars have taken to regularly questioning
their archons under Aura Perception, Bone of
Lies and other lie-detecting Disciplines . This sort of
interrogation often results in resentment on the
part of those questioned, however, and particularly
savvy Kindred know ways of getting around even
these techniques .
The truth of the matter is that most archons really
are loyal to the Camarilla . It's the precise definition of
that loyalty that causes most internal conflict .
Is an archon who spends her free time scheming
for her own advancement guilty of any real wrongdoing?
How does it harm the Camarilla for an
archon to advance her own cause in the games of
politics and prestation played by other elders? What
if an archon truly believes that the best thing for the
Camarilla is for the Tremere to rise to unquestioned
dominance over the sect, or for the schismatic
Assamites to be driven from the Ivory Tower before
they've had the chance to develop a real foothold?
If one archon cedes territory to the Sabbat in order
to fall back and plan a more viable defense, but
another insists on shedding blood for each square
inch of domain gained, is one more loyal to the
Camarilla than the other?
Archons are individuals . The Storyteller should
never feel constrained to make every archon a "good
little soldier," following orders and spouting rigid "for
the good of the sect!" doggerel . Entire stories, even
entire chronicles, can be set up around the conflicts
of interest faced by even the staunchest of archons .
Let the characters advance their own agendas when
they aren't "on duty," only to find that the boon they
owe is being called in-and what they're being asked
is entirely inappropriate for an archon . Maybe they've
been caught between what they know is the best
solution to a problem and the conflicting orders of a
distant justicar who can't be bothered to examine the
situation first-hand . Perhaps they're even trapped
between two of the Camarilla's judges . Do they obey
their own superior or the justicar who happens to be
present at the time?
Self versus sect . Clan versus clan . Clan versus sect.
Archon versus archon . Archon versus justicar . Any or
all of these make for a rich storytelling experience, and
there never has to be an identifiable "bad guy ."
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
29
EX-ARCHONS
Archon is not an unlife-long title . New justicars
usually dismiss their predecessors' agents, either because
they have others they prefer to work with or out
of a paranoid fear of lingering hostilities or spies . Other
archons simply tire of the position and request permission
to resign . While some justicars have refused
requests to retire, few wish to risk the repercussions of
forcing Kindred into service . Better to find a new
archon, even if he's not as skilled or experienced, than
to chance a disgruntled agent acting out and causing
more problems than she solves .
Some archons, such as Lucinde, leave the post
only when they're promoted out of it . Almost half
of the justicars who have served the Camarilla over
the centuries have been drawn from the ranks of
the archons . This held true even in the years before
the position of archon was formally acknowledged .
Rumor states that at least one current member of
the Inner Circle was an archon . Then again, listen
hard enough and you'll also hear rumors that the
Inner Circle are all Methuselahs, diablerists,
Inconnu, demons and even aliens, so take it for
whatever it's worth .
What many retired archons learn, unfortunately,
is that their former position still imposes a significant
number of responsibilities and causes more than a few
problems, without granting the ex-archon any mitigating
privileges .
Justicars, princes and other officials often expect
former archons to step up and resume some
burden of responsibility in emergency situations .
"The Sabbat has begun a crusade against my city?
Well, that's not a problem. Peter here was an
archon! He knows how to deal with this sort of
thing, don't you, Pete?" The justicars are unlikely
to forget who served them (or their predecessors),
and while an ex-archon isn't formally required to
obey a summons to assist a current archon or
justicar, the social repercussions for refusing a call
to service can be severe .
The flip side of the coin is that many ex-archons
are met wherever they go by a veritable tidal wave of
hatred and suspicion . Justicars and other archons keep
their eyes on their former comrades, alert for the first
hint of disloyalty or "untoward" ambition . After all,
there must be some reason they were dismissed from
service (or chose to retire) . Can't trust them, obviously
; they're up to something .
Other, local figures such as princes and sheriffs but
also including any random Kindred off the street, mistrust
former archons for exactly the opposite reason .
Who's to say that they've really left the service, hmm?
Maybe they're still archons, working undercover . Better
not say anything, just in case .
(This is still preferable to the alternative . Several
ex-archons have been severely injured, or even killed,
in retaliation for things they'd done back when they
were archons . No matter how tough they may be
individually, they become much easier targets when
they no longer have the entire Camarilla backing
them up.)
Most ex-archons find their best option is to
completely conceal their former position from those
around them . This isn't necessarily all that difficult
. Unless he happened to be an alastor (and it's
questionable whether they're ever allowed to retire),
most archons don't have any distinguishing
marks on their persons . Princes and sheriffs don't
have access to a computer database of former archons,
and most archons aren't so well known that
anyone's likely to know them by sight . Still, it only
takes one chance encounter or one misspoken
word to blow an ex-archon's past wide open . Most
of those who retire from the justicars' service become
reclusive, paranoid figures, even compared
to other Kindred . This isn't universal, and some
few have even managed to turn their former profession
into a selling point to acquire other local
positions (more than a few sheriffs and scourges of
the largest cities are ex-archons, and the politics
make for savvy primogen) . Still, it's common
enough that many archons who consider retiring
take a good look at the alternatives, and elect to
remain in service .
ACROSS THE YEARS
Partial transcript of a briefing given new "recruits"
by Archon Kirsten Bellamy of Clan Toreador ;
handwritten comments added after the fact by Archon
Zachariah Shale of Clan Tremere
ANCIENT HISTORY
If you would be fully prepared to deal with what is
to come, you must be familiar with what has gone
before . As archons, we are the bearers of a proud
tradition, one as ancient and as revered as the Camarilla
itself. You must understand that tradition, our history
- and the history of those we serve, the justicars and
the Inner Circle .
The title "archon" actually comes from ancient
Greece; Athens, to be precise . The list of
archons can be dated back to 682 BC, when a group
of nine magistrates first assumed executive and
judicial power that had formerly been held by a
single king . Sounds more like a proper title for the
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
30
position we now call "justicar," or maybe even a
member of the Inner Circle, doesn't it? I can't
honestly say why the title of archon was chosen for
the position you and I now hold, though I'm willing
to bet it was one of those so-called idealistic
Brujah who suggested the term.
Kirsten utterly dismisses a small but relatively
important historical footnote with a wave of her hand .
I'll be generous and assume the lie by omission is due
to ignorance on her part, rather than deliberate
dishonesty (mostly since she's got nothing to gain by
hiding the truth) .
The term archon, even as applied to Kindred,
actually predates the Camarilla entirely, though the
meaning has changed . During the middle Ages, well
before the birth of either of the modern sects, u
organization of Cainites called themselves Prometheus .
made up largely of Brujah who were still all lathered
up about the gall of "great" Carthage, the stated
goal of the Prometheus was the recreation of a
utopia in which Kindred and mortal could dwell
together in peace .
Yeah, I know . But they believed it .
The sect had multiple unstated goals too, of
course . one of them was to bring down most of their
elders - particularly the lnconnu (apparently ) they
were around back then) . l he Prometheus believe ,
correctly or not, that the lnconnu consisted largely
of elder Cainites who had pulled the strings of the
Roman Empire and were, in fact, responsible for the
fall of Carthage (which) to hear the Prometheus
speak of it, was a tragedy second only to the
expulsion from eden) .
Now the lnconnu had a nasty habit of knowing (or
at least seeming to know) everything that went on,
everywhere. Some of the more paranoid Prometheus
began to suspect almost everybody of being u agent
of the lnconnu . l he problem became, how to warn your
fellow Prometheus of a suspected plant? !f the lnconnu
agent overheard you or somehow learned you were on
to him, he'd just disappear and be replaced by someone
else - and you'd be marked as a Kindred who "knew
too much." (Again, this may all have been paranoia on
the part of the Prometheus . I haven t been able to
determine if the Inconnu really gave a rat's ass about
them or not .)
For whatever reason, the Prometheus settled on
the term archon as a code word . It was originally used
to refer to a suspected lnconnu agent, but it grew
over time to refer to any servant of u elder Lick
who was (or might have been working against
Promethean interests •
The use of the term archon by the ?Prometheans
lasted for a few hundred years at most . I don't know
why they stopped using it although I suspect the term
had become so commonly known that it was no longer
valid as a secret code word . Vhatever the case, it seems
likely to me that some of the Kindred involved in the
founding of the camarilla had either been Prometheans
themselves, or had been in contact with those who were .
our use of the term archon is probably some elder s
twisted notion of ironic humor ; I've addressed this a bit
more below .
Ws always possible, I suppose, that the use of the
term by both sects is coincidental, but what are the
odds of that?
CONCEPTION
The Camarilla didn't spring up overnight . We're
talking about the single largest social construct that
the Kindred have ever created . Years upon years went
into the planning and evolution of the Camarilla; if
anything, it's a wonder it happened as quickly as it did .
Although certain powerful Cainites had made
previous attempts at forming local alliances that
CHAPTER ONE THE NOBLE CAUSE
31
would bring disparate princes and lords together
into a single cohesive body, it required a common
enemy before more than a handful of elders were
willing even to consider such a radical concept as a
formalized Kindred social order . Many Kindred who
have studied Camarilla history already know that
those who would become the Founders first drew
together in order to plan a defense against the
violent uprisings of younger Kindred, frustrated with
a shortage of domains and their lack of advancement
in Cainite society . What you may not already
know is that the Founders had their own archons -
though they didn't call them that - carrying out
their agendas well before the Camarilla was officially
founded in 1435 .
In 1335 or thereabouts, the anarch Tyler
launched an attack on Hardestadt, an elder Ventrue
who would go on to become one of the primary
forces behind the creation of the Camarilla . He and
the other Founders, inspired to greater efforts by the
eloquence of the Toreador Rafael de Corazon, had
spent the previous year in the early stages of planning
their new alliance . After Tyler's futile but
frightening assault, the Founders-to-be realized that
they needed a unified force to resist the increasingly
violent tactics of the anarchs . True, each had his or
her own childer, ghouls and agents, but that obviously
wasn't sufficient . They were going to have to
coordinate their efforts and work together if they
were to survive long enough to convince others to
coordinate and work together .
While they never gave this "task force" a formal
title (since there was yet no official organization to
which they belonged), I am given to understand
that the Founders privately referred to their soldiers
as "myrmidons," after the soldiers who followed
Achilles in the Trojan War (here we see another
Greek connection ; interesting) . These myrmidons
were drawn from the ranks of the Founders' own
elite childer, and were commanded jointly by the
seven elders . They were responsible for protecting
the Founders whenever they met to further discuss
their plans and objectives ; but more than that, they
were regularly dispatched on missions of terror and
assassination, their targets the most well-known
anarchs . No fewer than four attempts were made on
the unlife of Tyler herself . While some astonishing
luck on Tyler's part rendered all four attempts failures,
the myrmidons had more success with other
anarch leaders .
Don't believe a word of it . Someone like Tyler
doesn't survive long with so many enemies if she relies
on luck .
Where's a reason you don' t hear about these "prearchons"
tonight . The myrmidons were a good idea, but
the Founders were still getting their feet wet in
terms of this whole notion of cooperation, and things
were executed very poorly . For all their supposed
Unify ) the myrmidons were still very much creatures
of disparate loyalties . They were encouraged to watch
out for their sire's best interests above and beyond
the needs of the group, they were given conflicting
orders and they were often mired in old grudges and
political conflicts that should have been left behind
when the Founders first sat down around the same
table . If the anarchs had ever learned how truly
disorganized the myrmidons were, they d have swept
o v er a meeting of the Founders like a tsunami and
Kindred history would look very different. If the
myrmidons proved successful at anything, it was by
providing a negative example . by examining their
failures with the myrmidons, the Founders and other
early Camarilla authorities learned some valuable
lessons in how not to organize the institution that
would eventually become the office of archon .
The last mention history makes of the myrmidons
is 1435, immediately before the Founders
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
32
formally announced the Camarilla for all the Kindred
to consider . As suspicious as all Cainites were of one
another, the Founders knew that they had to step
softly and carefully coax others into the sect . Had the
other elders and other clans learned that the Founders
had been making use of personal armies in the years
before the Camarilla was openly declared, they'd
almost certainly have suspected Hardestadt, Corazon
and the others of duplicity . . . more so than they
already did, even . So the Founders disbanded the
myrmidons, sending them back to their individual
sires once more .
I
BIRTH
For five decades and change, the nascent Camarilla
was without a formal order-keeping body of any sort .
This wasn't because the nights were calm and peaceful .
On the contrary, conflict and war raged all around the
newborn sect . The Anarch Revolt continued to grow,
as young and foolish Kindred rebelled against a new
order that granted leadership to those elders who had
the power and experience to most effectively lead .
What a shocking concept! The fires of the Inquisition
burned brighter, rising to a fever pitch with the distribution
of the Malleus Maleficarum in 1458, and the
Assamites swarmed into Europe on the heels of the
advancing Turks . Obviously the Camarilla had more
than its share of difficulties, but it was the forces fielded
by elders and princes on an individual basis, rather
than any formalized military force, that defended the
sect from such threats .
Had the archons or something like them already
been an established presence at the time, able to pass
intelligence and defend less able Kindred, it's possible
that many elders could have escaped the In inquisitors'
pyres without the need to sacrifice their own childer
in the process . Imagine how much weaker the Sabbat
might be tonight if the ranks of the anarchs hadn't been
swelled by that "great injustice ."
The Founders spent most of that time dashing
pell-mell around Europe, trying to put out brushfires
of various sorts before they could grow into
conflagrations that would consume the sect . The
Camarilla nearly died in those distant nights, not
due to any external threat (though there was certainly
no shortage of those) but out of neglect .
Most of those elders who claimed allegiance went
about their nightly activities as though nothing
had changed, giving the Camarilla little thought
as they set their servants to protecting their own
domains and advancing their own agendas . The
Founders - now tagged with the title of justicars,
since they seemed to be doing little else besides
"/
policing the Kindred - were unable to advance
any of the great visions they had for the future of
the sect ; they were too busy keeping everything
from bursting apart at the seams .
Desperate to change the situation at hand,
the justicars called the first global conclave to
order in 1486 . Through long nights of vicious
debate, they were able to convince the other
elders that things could not stand as they were .
The justicars were granted extensive powers to
punish any vampire found guilty of violating the
Traditions . It was here, too, that the formal establishment
of a "constabulary organization" under
the justicars was first considered .
These agents of the justicars were called by many
names-including archon, a title preferred by several
of the Founders - but were officially titled sheriffs .
This was done so that local princes, who had their own
sheriffs, wouldn't feel that their authority was threatened
by these new peacekeepers .
And because no few elders involved still remembered
the original implications behind the promethean
use of the title .
These new sheriffs were instrumental in the forthcoming
Camarilla triumph. Now able to field a force
unified by ideals, unencumbered by conflicting loyalties,
the Ivory Tower began to achieve victory after
victory against the forces of both the anarchs and the
Assamites . Although I've heard of no concrete evidence
one way or the other, rumor states - and I
believe it-that the Nosferatu spy who discovered the
Assamite fortress of Alamut was one of these agents of
the Founders . With the Assamite surrender, the
Camarilla and the justicars were able to turn their full
attention to the anarchs alone . The young rebels
quickly realized the hopelessness of their position and
sued for peace .
"'Victory after victory"? Not necessarily . try
stalemate after stalemate . I'll not deny that the
advent of the sheriffs definitely turned the tide of
the war, but it hardly granted us the sweeping
conquest Kirsten seems to imply . gad that lone
Nosferatu not accidentally stumbled upon Alamut,
we might still be fighting the war to this night . I still
find it astonishing that a single clan, even one as
martial as the Assamites, could battle the might of
seven clans to a draw. &ranted, we were dealing with
the Anarch Revolt as well, and were unable to direct
our resources entirely at one or the other . still, when
I consider such things, I start to think that maybe
I ought to be a bit more graceful about allowing the
schismatic Assamites into our ranks . the phrase
CHAPTER ONE THE NOBLE CAUSE
33
"better with us than against us" once again springs
to mind . .. .
THE COUNCIL OF THORNS AND BEYOND
October, 1493 . I trust I need not remind you of the
significance of that date? The Council of Thorns saw
the surrender of both the anarchs and the Assamites,
as well as the casting of the Tremere ritual designed to
bring the Assassins to heel . The specific events of this
six-night convocation are well known, and I see no
need to rehash most of the details here .
One point debated at Thorns, however, bears
closer examination . One of the questions put before
the delegates by the Brujah Master of Ceremonies
Eleanor de Valois was as to whether the current system-
that is, the authority of justicars and their
sheriffs-should continue, and how to best determine
who would hold those offices .
Initially the decision was made to allow the
Founders to continue as the Camarilla's justicars, and
no higher power was mandated to watch over them .
There was to be no "Inner Circle." The justicars were
the sect's highest authority, and the position was to be
renewed after a period of 30 years.
The Founders-turned-justicars realized very rapidly,
however, that while their sect had come through
its ordeals with a newfound strength, their own position
had not markedly improved . The duties required
of them as judges, magistrates and peacekeepers still
kept them from their true goals of advancing the cause
of the Camarilla itself. Over a very short span of time
- in Kindred terms - the Founders decided that
things had to change .
A special conclave was called by all seven
justicars in the early months of the year 1504 . By the
Founders' own order, this particular gathering was
kept largely secret from those not specifically invited
to attend . At this assembly, held in a small
town outside Vienna, the Founders explained to the
gathered Kindred that they could no longer fulfill
the duties required of them as justicars if they were
to successfully lead the Camarilla to its rightful
place of dominance . Seven new justicars, one of
each clan, would be chosen by a vote of all those
present . Because these new justicars might not hold
as strong a commitment to the Camarilla as the
Founders themselves, the Founders would form a
supervisory council, one that had the power to
overrule even the decrees of a justicar . Furthermore,
rather than the initial 30-year terms, the justicars
would henceforth be reviewed, and possibly replaced,
every 13 years, and this would be done by a
vote of the new supervisory council - the Inner
Circle . Some elders present at the conclave ob-
1
jected to so small a faction holding so much power,
but the Founders were able to call in sufficient
boons and debts that the vote to modify the
Camarilla's structure passed by a reasonable margin .
The justicars elected to office at this conclave were
Targin of Clan Brujah, Griga of Clan Gangrel,
Lethe of Clan Malkavian, Anachriss of Clan
Nosferatu, Lenore Braundice of Clan Toreador, Holtz
of Clan Tremere and Democritus of Clan Ventrue .
Thus was formed the Camarilla as we truly know it
in the modern age .
I know for a fact that at least two of these early
jusTicars, and possibly more, survive to this night .
Lethe, on her more coherent nights, serves as seneschal
and advisor to prince Ritter of Munich, and Anachriss
still serves the Inner Circle directly as one of its
oldest alastors .
Also for the record, it's partially because of
Eleanor de walois that we're now called archons and not
sheriffs . selected as both announcer and mediator for
the duration of the Council of Thorns, de'Walois handled
her responsibilities with aplomb despite being thrown
headfirst into a veritable feeding frenzy of some of
the most powerful elders in all of Europe . 'Very few
present at the time realized that she was nervous as
all hell, and she only slipped up in one minor detail .
De 'valois' sire, you see, had been a die-hard
?romethean, and he'd indoctrinated his childe with
constant tales of that dead sect's noble purpose . 4e
schooled her in their goals, their techniques - and
their terminology .
Vhen addressing the conclave, Eleanor de 'valois
used the term archon when she meant sheriff . ,Multiple
times .
In the seventeenth century, when the Camarilla
was looking for a new designation for its agents that
would differentiate between them and the sheriffs who
served the princes on a local level, someone in the Inner
Circle remembered de walois' faux pas from so many
years before, and decided that archon was as good a
title as any .
As the Sabbat rose from the ashes of the Anarch
Revolt and turned its mindless bloodlust against the
Camarilla, these new justicars and their sheriffs
stood on the front lines . For over a century, the vast
majority of the sheriffs' attention was directed to
the war effort, with very little emphasis placed on
internal matters. Consider that the Sabbat wasn't
yet firmly established even to the extent it is tonight,
and the elders of the Camarilla viewed this as
something of a civil war . Because the Black Hand
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
34
wasn't recognized yet as an autonomous entity, the
justicars and sheriffs tended to look upon them as
nothing more than the same sort of rebellious childer
who had been put down once already .
Then, at the conclave held in September of 1595,
the Sabbat very nearly won the war .
Haven't heard of it, have you? The Inner Circle
and the justicars have kept what happened that September
secret from the greatest portion of the Camarilla
for over four centuries .
The Sabbat leaders at the time, despite having
made some initial gains, had to face the fact that
they simply couldn't equal the numerical might of
the Camarilla. The larger sect included most of
Europe's elders, and these venerable Kindred were
too well entrenched and too well protected to be
easily unearthed (sometimes literally) . The Ventrue
had tightened their influence over their domains,
making it almost impossible for Sabbat agents to
set up shop within their borders . With the aid of
the sheriffs, this policy quickly spread to other
Camarilla territories . Means of conquest other than
open conflict exist, though, and the Sabbat hit
upon one of them .
You've probably never heard the name of Jean-
Paul Pierre LaMont . We don't like to talk about
him much, since he became perhaps the greatest
shame the Camarilla had ever experienced to that
point . LaMont, you see, is the only justicar to this
night to turn traitor to the sect and throw in his lot
with the Sabbat .
I don't know what incentives they offered him,
what his price was for denying his oath. I do know that
he betrayed the location and the security precautions
of the 1595 conclave to an enormous Sabbat war pack .
Had they succeeded in launching the surprise assault as
they planned, they might well have slain the entire
Inner Circle in one fell swoop .
It was then that the sheriffs truly came into
their own. Acting without orders from any of the
justicars, Federico DiPadua and his coterie chose
to investigate a subtle but sudden change in behavior
on the part of LaMont, and were able to discover
and intercept the Sabbat's main force . Although
too small a unit to take on the war pack on their
own, these noble sheriffs nevertheless engaged the
enemy in order to delay them long enough for
DiPadua himself (he drew the short straw, apparently)
to race back to the conclave and warn the
assembly. The justicars, sheriffs and even the Inner
Circle were forced to battle their way through
some elements of the Black Hand's soldiers - at
least one member of the Inner Circle fell that night
- but because they fled before the enemy's main
force arrived, they were able to win freedom .
DiPadua was commended by the Inner Circle, as
were the other members of his coterie, though
their recognition was posthumous .
The astute observer will have noticed that Kirsten
Itneglected" to mention which clan the traitorous
LaMont belonged to. Gee, I wonder why she might have
done +h4+?
Lamont himself was granted the distinction of
one of the highest positions on the Red List, an honor
he carried with him as a sabbat bishop until some
time in the 1740s, when Anachriss finally tracked
him down and, as I understand it, physically ripped
the betrayer's head from his body . LaMont had a
small brood of childer who turned traitor with him .
1f you ever find yourself operating in sabbat-held
territory, you may want to keep halo an eye open
for evidence of them ; they're not quite Red List
material, but you can still earn yourself a heap of
brownie points by taking them down .
The elders of the Camarilla were outraged at
both the betrayal and the assault on their persons,
and they retaliated enthusiastically . Never in all
the years since have there been as many archons in
service at any given time as there were sheriffs in
the years between 1595 and the early 1600s . The
justicars drafted just about every capable Kindred
they came across and sent them against the Sabbat .
Sheriffs infiltrated cities taken by the Black Hand
and began feeding information to their justicars at
a prodigious rate . The Sabbat was forced further
and further into retreat, first into the wilds of
Scandinavia, and later across the Atlantic to the
New World.
THE New WORLD
Despite multiple agents in the Spanish Court,
the Founders never could determine with any degree
of certainty if Lasombra influence played a part
in the decision to finance Columbus' voyages . Whatever
the case, the Sabbat clearly benefited from the
discovery of the Americas to a far greater extent
than the Camarilla, at least at first . As the Sabbat
fled across the ocean in ever-increasing numbers
throughout the seventeenth century, the justicars
and the Inner Circle grew sharply divided over what
actions, if any, to take in response . Most Kindred
still held an intensely Euro-centric worldview, and
many felt that the Sabbat should be permitted, even
encouraged, to withdraw to the New World, and
good riddance to them.
CHAPTER ONE : THE NOBLE CAUSE
3 5
Wiser heads prevailed . Many elders recognized
that expansion into new territories would provide
opportunities for younger Kindred without threatening
the stability of the old, and thus lessen the chances
that the Camarilla would ever see a repeat of the
Anarch Revolt . Childer and grandchilder of European
princes and primogen made their way westward, and
several sheriffs went with them as protection and the
eyes of the Inner Circle .
The reports that drifted back across the Atlantic
made the elders sit up and take notice . While the
war between Camarilla and Sabbat remained fairly
low-key at the time, consisting primarily of rhetoric
and insignificant border skirmishes, the Sabbat was
entrenching itself in the Spanish and Portuguese
colonies at an alarming rate . The Camarilla ancillae,
on the other hand, quickly became wrapped up in
their own power struggles . Suddenly free of the
watchful eyes of their sires, their commitment to the
sect was superseded by their own desire for personal
advancement . If war did come to the Americas, with
things as they stood at the time, the Sabbat would
sweep over the tentative Camarilla enclaves without
even slowing down . The Camarilla had to make
their presence felt in the New World - as a unified
sect, not a gaggle of struggling wannabe-princes -
and they had to do it fast .
The term archon finally came into formal usage at
the conclave of 1660 . No longer was the Inner Circle
concerned with individual princes feeling threatened
by a Camarilla-wide force that might challenge their
own sheriffs, scourges and other soldiers . The Inner
Circle wanted its agents to stand out (as a unit, not as
individuals) . They wanted the princes to know that
the Camarilla, as a sect, was taking a hand in guiding
its own affairs . The title of sheriff was dropped in favor
of the more recognizable archon, and the justicars were
granted even more leeway in selecting their agents
than they possessed already .
The seventeenth and eighteenth centuries might
have been relatively quiet ones in terms of the
Camarilla-sabbat war, but that hardly means it was
a peaceful era where the archons themselves were
concerned . In fact, it was partially due to our efforts
that the war didn't flare up any higher than it did .
vhile most New Vorld Kindred were
busy stabilizingtheir positions and scrabling for power in a political
arena that barely existed, archons were keeping an
eye on the entire powder keg to ensure it didn't
ignite. The orders of the justicars and the Inner
Circle were explicit : keep the conflict from escalating
into full-fledged war by any means necessary, at
least until we were in a better position to fight it .
More than one sabbat city suffered an abnormal
number of accidents during the settling of the
colonies and the evolution of the United states as a
nation. Fires destroyed substantial portions of many
towns, including sabbat havens . Diseases ran rampant
among the mortal populations, depriving the black
hand 6f healthy herds . Even the occasional encounter
between the sabbat and a pack of native Lupines was
less accidental than it seemed .
several of our own kindred were quietly eliminated
as well . some 0f the more hotheaded ancillae, drunk on
their newfound power, would have provoked the local
sabbat into attacking, or even initiated the war on
their own, had several archons not been present to
quiet the agitators . others had ac-+ally begun trying
o make private accords with the local sabbat, as the
Black hand's "freedom for the young" spiel appealed
to several of the more gullible newcomers . Few of us
particularly enjoy assassinating our own sect-mates,
but we do what must be done .
THE OLD WORLD
Because North America has become the primary
battleground between the sects in the modern nights,
a
most Kindred historians focus almost exclusively on
that continent from the 1600s onward. The greater
portion of the Camarilla still occupied Europe, however,
and the Inner Circle, the justicars and the
archons had more to deal with than the goings-on in
the New World .
The Turks continued to threaten Eastern Europe
almost until the turn of the 1700s, and the Assamites
came with them in obvious violation of the Treaty of
Thorns. They came not as ravening hordes of
diablerists, but as shadow-stalking assassins . Many
had already begun their tradition of killing-for-hire,
but others still sought redress for what they saw as the
injustice inflicted on their clan . Camarilla elders,
especially Tremere, were marked for the Assamites'
blades. Archons were often employed as bodyguards
and sentries during this period, and for a time several
Tremere chantries harbored more archons than they
did Warlocks .
When the Giovanni declared in 1680 that they'd
slain the last of their parent clan, the entire Camarilla
blinked . The Tremere, with their great mystical powers,
had been hunting the diabolical Salubri for over
six centuries and couldn't claim complete success .
The Giovanni hunt had lasted less than half that
time . Even with outside aid (rumor has it that some
Camarilla Kindred assisted the Necromancers in their
,_L-/
efforts), how could they have achieved such a victory
so rapidly? This, more than any threat posed directly
against the Camarilla, convinced the Inner Circle
and the justicars that they needed to focus on more
than just the Sabbat (and, to a lesser extent, the
Assamites) . Any Kindred group that held no loyalty
to the Ivory Tower was a potential hazard . Justicars
began selecting their archons for a wider variety of
skills, focusing less on martial abilities and seeking
more perceptive and intelligent candidates . Investigation
became as great a portion of an archon's
responsibilities as combat, if not greater.
That's muddy history, though I think the benefit
of hindsight is choosing Kirsten's words . The Giovanni,
erv'Ifn ot drbmoaeliley vde,eclared, "ve whacked 'em
ally" vhy would they? Vhat better way to redirect all
those hungry eyes toward yourselves?
In any event, while it's difficult to pinpoint
exact dates, it was also about this time that the
notion of different "branches" of archons arose .
The alastors had existed long before this, but
other specialist units first began to appear in the
early eighteenth century . I can't document it, but
I have reason to believe that the Quaesitors
appeared before the other formal branches, though
the Josians are almost as old . vith the sudden
ascendance of the Giovanni, a clan that focused on
blood sorcery almost to the extent the Tremere
did, the need for magically proficient archons
became undeniable .
In 1724, one year before the next regular
conclave, parties unknown assassinated the Wentrue
Justicar Mary Anne Blaire through the use of a
very large keg of gunpowder and a very short fuse .
Her murderer was blown to paste right along with
her, so the investigation was pretty much stalled
from the get-go .
That's the official story. some few of us have
been told that the assassination was ordered by the
Inner Circle itself and was carried out by an archon
under the command of one of the other justicars . I've
never heard the official reason for Blaire's removal,
but she possibly posed some sort of threat that
needed dealing with. My theory is that the Inner
Circle had somehow received intelligence that she was
about to pull a Jean-Paul LaMont, but that's just
guessing on my part .
REVOLUTION AND THE 1800s
I'm not going to spend much time on either the
American or French revolutions . Both of them were
CHAPTER ONE THE NOBLE CAUSE
37
FOR THE STORYTELLER:
MARY ANNE BLAIRE
Actually, Mary Anne Blaire was quite loyal
to the Camarilla. She was removed for precisely
that reason .
One of the Inner Circle - none but the
other members and the justicars know who -
was replaced by a fleshcrafted double just
before the Sabbat migration to the New
World . That was the main reason the Sabbat
never launched an all-out offensive on the
Camarilla in the Americas . They figured they
had the upper hand whenever they needed it,
and could afford to take the time to fortify
their position first .
What the Sabbat infiltrator didn't know was
that he'd been found out almost the instant he
entered the presence of the other members of the
Circle. He was allowed to continue so the
Camarilla could feed the Sabbat false information
via a source they'd never think to question .
Unfortunately, Blaire found out about the deception
and assumed, when she realized that the
Inner Circle wasn't taking steps to eliminate the
mole, that they'd all been compromised . Upon
learning that the justicar intended to bring the
matter up before an emergency conclave of all
the local elders - and realizing that such a
revelation would get back to the Sabbat almost
immediately - the Inner Circle reluctantly decided
to dispose of Blaire .
They continued feeding the mole false information
that allowed the Camarilla to strengthen
its position in the New World for another several
years, until the traitor was rendered torpid in an
unrelated carriage accident, at which point the
Circle executed and replaced him .
primarily mortal conflicts, with Kindred interests represented
only peripherally . If you want to be technical
about it, the Camarilla lost them both, though they
were defeats of relatively little importance .
Although we lost some territory on the East Coast,
the Camarilla greatly overwhelmed the Sabbat during
the westward expansion . It's unfortunate that we were
forced to give up several established cities, but the
opportunities for expansion on the frontier more than
made up for that shortfall .
Actually, we lost a large number of very
powerful elders in the French Revolution and the
Feign of Terror. ve'd have lost a lot more if several
coteries of archons hadn't been dispatched for the
sole purpose of aiding the escape of any and all
Kindred fleeing France .
Ve grew complacent after the American Revolution.
True, the sabbat had taken a hand, but to far -
less a degree than we'd expected . Ve weren't prepared,
then, when they made a grab for the Eastern seaboard
during the Var of 1812 . Then, much as now, the sabbat
took a great deal of territory from us, but wasn't able
to hold onto all of it .
I must admit that the local archons were caught
as much by surprise as anyone else. The part they
played in the Var of 181z was minuscule at best .
Nor did we "overwhelm" the sabbat in the west .
the sabbat defeated itself . our infiltrators report
that the sect was caught in the throes of civil war
at the time, and simply wasn't able to devote
sufficient resources to battling us. Granted, we had
some hand in that . You'd be astonished at how easily
a single well-placed archon or other agent provocateur
could turn packs against one another in those
nights. still, it wasn't until the rise of the
Industrial Revolution that the Camarilla could
honestly claim to be the dominant sect on the
continent . 1f we'd had to face the undiluted might
of the sabbat in the 1800s, we'd have lost the west,
if not the entire country.
THE TWENTIETH CENTURY
Not since the nights immediately following the
founding of the Camarilla has the sect come so close to
tearing itself apart as it has throughout the past century
. The abdication and assassination of Czar Nicholas
II and the rise of Soviet Communism nearly ignited a
war between several European Ventrue and Brujah .
The First World War damaged Camarilla stability .
Because the worst of the war was localized in Camarilladominated
Europe, it allowed the Sabbat
unprecedented latitude to launch their own invasions
of our domains without providing us the opportunity
for counterattack . Fortunately they were able to maintain
precious few gains in the wake of the economic
devastation that followed . The Sabbat was particularly
hard hit by the Great Depression, since few of their
herds and mortal pawns were of the proper economic
demographic to ride out the crisis .
Kirsten neglects to mention the war that the
Camarilla almost waged with the Ravnos, of all
Kindred . In the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries, British colonial expansion had claimed a
substantial portion of the Indian subcontinent, and
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
38
many English Kindred went along in search of new
territories . Although these Kindred expected to
deal with the mysterious Cathayans, they didn't
artehsae lDiezceithvaert sIndia was home to
well. By the time the Camarilla realized that
they'd waltzed into territories claimed by a clan
believed homeless and nomadic, more than a handful
of elders had already fallen in retaliatory strikes
by the native Kindred .
Events elsewhere in the world prevented the
Camarilla from turning a hostile gaze toward India, and
for their part, the local Ravnos quickly realized that
they couldn't possibly win if they called down the
wrath of the entire sect on their collective heads . Both
sides gratefully settled on a peace within a matter
of months, but the Camarilla stationed several archons
throughout India's largest cities to watch for any
resurgence of anti-Camarilla sentiment among the
local Ravnos. Most of these archons had been reassigned
by the late twentieth century, but several disappeared
during the typhoon that struck Bangladesh two
years back and haven't been heard from since .
World War II pushed the sect even nearer to
collapse. While many European elders, particularly
among the Ventrue, Toreador and Tremere, supported
the Axis powers and made some truly revolting
use of the concentration camps, many Kindred opposed
the Nazis with all the might and influence
they could muster . Some horrors, it seems, even
"soulless vampires" want no part of . The Inner
Circle refused to pick sides, and several justicars
whose views of "the greater good" differed from their
fellows' found themselves working against each other
as they attempted to either support, thwart or manipulate
Hitler's war machine . By the end of the
war, it had become obvious to all but the most
deluded Kindred that Adolph Hitler was a danger to
everyone, completely uncontrollable-but by then,
of course, the syphilitic madman had solved the
problem for us by putting a gun to his own head .
Still, the war and the Holocaust had driven rifts
between many Camarilla clans and Kindred, and as
long as the war raged it seemed as though those
wounds would never heal .
They healed quickly enough when the United
States dropped the bomb on Hiroshima . Not since the
days of the Inquisition had there been so great an
argument for the preservation of the Masquerade . The
Inner Circle, the justicars and their archons came
down hard on those who too loudly expressed the
belief that the Camarilla's time had passed . Individual
differences lingered, but those factions that had begun
to form and threatened to shatter the Camarilla from
within quickly faded away, and the sect once more
became a relatively unified entity .
I'll say little about the years of the Cold War,
except that the efforts of the Camarilla and its agents
were bent largely toward preserving the fragile peace .
We didn't want nuclear war any more than the next
combustible creature .
No less than four attempts (that I'm aware of)
were made by the members of Gehenna cults to use
their influence to cause a war between the superpowers
. In two of those instances - once in 19°4 and the
other in 1974 - Josian agents within the cult were
able to pass word of the cultists intentions to the
Justicars, who then proceeded to make short work of
the cults themselves . Kindred who vastly underestimated
the intelligence of their kine pawns made a
similar attempt in 1967 ; we didn't have to get involved
in that one at all.
The fourth occurred in the mid-80s, and was
actually halted when the cult fell under the combined
assault of a coterie of archons and a sabbat war pack
who recognized the magnitude of the threat at hand .
makes you think, doesn't it?
THE MODERN NIGHTS
We have seen more changes in the balance of
power and the status quo in the last decades than in
the history of the Camarilla to date . Sheriffs and
archons across the world report a sudden, fratricidal
insanity sweeping over those Ravnos dwelling within
our cities . Although the attack passed shortly, it has
left the Deceivers with a fraction of their former
numbers . The Sabbat has succeeded in taking a
number of cities along the East Coast, but those
inroads are tentative at best, and our reclamation of
New York renders their victories so much ash . Having
discovered the faithlessness of the Gangrel, the
Inner Circle and the justicars wisely encouraged
Xaviar and his people to depart, keeping only those
few Outlanders whose loyalty to the sect is unquestionably
greater than their loyalty to their bestial
clan. An enormous portion of the Assamite clan,
having finally seen the error of its ways, even now
CHAPTER ONE: THE NOBLE CAUSE
39
petitions us to take the Gangrel's place . Let the
Sabbat and other foolish childer speak of the Final
Nights and the mythical Gehenna ; this is truly a
glorious time to be Camarilla . This is a glorious time
to be an archon.
This is a damn busy time t0 be an archon .
ve didn't "encourage" the Gangrel to leave .
Christ, within a decade we'll be claiming that we kicked
them out. Unbelievable .
As yet, no stable Camarilla order has formed
in New York. Ve hold onto the city by our fingertips,
and a handful of archons whose presence is
taderoelremqs aepuefiwhnor aercdirten dltyhe
Big Apple to ensure that the sabbat doesn't steal
it back from under our noses. semi-permanent
enclaves of archons operate across the sabbat-held
seaboard, and while vital intelligence emerges from
that newly hostile territory, many of our brethren
never do . Those of us left are supposed to keep an
eye on all remaining Gangrel, since we don't know
why they stayed; all departing Gangrel, since we
don't know why they left; and all arriving Assamites,
since we don't know why they're here. Certain of the
Giovanni are suddenly expressing an interest in
aiding us (covertly) of course) against the sabbat,
which would be good news if we didn't have to spare
yet more archons to investigate their motivations
for this sudden goodwill . I never thought I'd be
grateful for the Followers of set, but at least
they've remained consistent through all this; you
know what to expect from them . 1 through it all, more
and more archons, and even the justicars themselves,
are wrapped ever tighter in the webs of prestation
that are, I think, all that holds the Camarilla
together anymore .
Ve haven't heard a peep from the Inner Circle
since they elected this new batch of justicars in
1998. I hope they've got something up their collective
sleeves . Ve're doing the best we can, but I really
don't know how much longer we can hold the line . 1f
the Camarilla falls, the Masquerade falls, and even
the return of Caine himself can't help us then .

When bad men combine, the good must associate ; else they will fall one
by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle .
- Edmund Burke, Thoughts on the Cause of Present Discontents
"Knockin' on heaven's door," said Navarrese .
"Want some?"
I shook my head, more in disbelief than refusal . For
the first few seconds after I stepped over the threshold,
this place had looked just like any other Lasombra lair
I'd ever been in . Hopefully you know what I'm talking
about . As if their leftover shadow-spinnings gradually
find their way home, like those house pets you hear
about on Ripley's Believe It or Not, and collect in the
comers of the haven, waiting to be noticed and cleaned
up. At first, all I could see was different shades of
gloom . Then my eyes adjusted . Now I found myself in
Port Townsend hippy-dippy shitbox . Frank Zappa
posters, Nag Champa incense, decrepit bead curtain in
the doorway to the kitchen, Moroccan hassocks and
even beanbag chairs, for Christ's sake . The only place
you could even sit upright like a dignified person was
on the stools at the kitchen bar .
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
4 1
Navarrese exhaled a cloud of heavy-sweet smoke.
"You shouldn't think so loud," he chided . I flinched .
"Serious, you want some?"
"Why the hell would I?"
"You're tense. Better idea - take the guest
pipe ." He fumbled around in the pile of crap on his
coffee table and handed me this clay blob that
looked like somebody's high school art-sculpture
project . I guess it was meant to be Gratiano, or the
iconography of Gratiano anyway, with the vertical
cheek-scar and the curly hair and the eyes just dots
of black glaze .
"What good is it?" I protested .
"Ever used one of these? Put your thumb over the
hole . Breathe in and hold it ." He held a lighter to the
little pile of flakes . "Now don't laugh when I say this .
What you do is, you think about coughing . Don't really
cough, just - think about it for a minute ."
This all had to be some kind of penny-ante test .
What the fuck was I supposed to do? But I decided to
play along, and what do you know : something filtered
through. It wasn't the hit of the century, but I felt it.
Something opened up in there and grabbed the smoke .
"That's because you just brought blood up into the
alveoli ." Navarrese looked satisfied . "Where the blood
touches the air . Some Tremere showed me that trick
years ago. Modern medicine . Better?"
"Jesus. I haven't had pot since I was a kid . Probably
still take me all night to get stoned ."
He tossed me the baggie . "Knock yourself out ."
Here was one of the rising stars of the West
Coast Inquisition .
He went over to his big bay window and sat in it .
"Too many Cathayans in Tacoma now, too many
Ventrue in Seattle . I like the pace of things here . I'm
at that age where slow is good, you know?" He flicked
a glance at me . Of course I didn't know . I figured if I
wasn't dead by then I hadn't been good for much .
"Nero Wolfe had his orchids . Holmes played violin. I
smoke Mexican Red and watch the water . It's not
evocative, but it works ."
I took him in. Baggy jeans, knobbly bare feet, and a
black T-shirt with a huge pink triangle on it. The
Birkenstocks were mercifully absent . This was not at all the
picture I'd gotten of the man at Baltimore's Palla Grande
last year . Then he'd come as Voltaire, bewigged and
powdered, and played the part to the hilt . I never thought
an infernalism charge could be delivered with such wit .
"I had to wait for the ball. That wasn't just drama ."
Damn. I wished he would stop reading my mind .
"Well, guard your mind better ; that's the first
thing to work on. Brandenburg was a bishop, Nadia . I
needed to corner him in a roomful of elders who
weren't his buddies . If I'd just accused him to his own
council, they'd have dragged their feet and debated
each other about how much in my way they should try
to get - during which time he'd have scooted up to
Alaska, made himself a new face and settled down for
a nice little 20-year nap . Besides .. ." He finished up his
joint with one long drag, got up and crossed the room
to start rolling another one . "I know he's got an
accomplice on that council . Now that he's incommunicado
in Vykos' talons, we'll just see how long it takes
the bastard to jump."
"Vykos knows you're using it like that?"
"Why should it mind?" Navarrese shrugged . "At
this point, it's not a question of what it actually does
with the man. I could have sent Brandenburg to any
sandpaper-dildo-wielding Fiend in the phone book .
He'll break . He's a coward by nature . And I already
know who most of his cohorts are . They just need to
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
42
implicate themselves . Vykos knows its name alone is
good for a jolt ."
I nodded, mulling this over . He sounded at least
lightly stoned, but he was making sense enough .
"The one thing you can count on with Fausts is
their overweening selfishness . In fact, it's the defining
trait . Go on, Nadia, sit . Relax . Everything's arranged ."
"With Brandenburg?"
"With you."
I sat on a stool, took one more hit off the pipe just
to be polite, then shoved it away down the bar .
"All right. Where am I going?"
"You're to be anointed templar to Stimson ."
"A bishop?"
"A bishop of my close acquaintance down in Nogales ."
"Is he happy about it?"
"Actually, she was happier than I expected ."
Navarrese leaned back against the sill . Whenever we
shut up the sound of the water came through the glass,
making the room feel exposed and yet hidden at the
same time, like a secret cove on some vacation island .
Pity that wasn't really the case . "It turns out she's
begun dabbling in espionage, and your intimate knowledge
of the Camarilla sounds useful to her at the
moment. I didn't sell you on that point alone, don't
worry. She's also aware of your ... other qualifications ."
"Good, because I don't want to be hired as a
snitch," I told him . "That defeats the purpose ."
"Yes, it does . She'll keep that part of it quiet . As far
as los vatos are concerned, you've been appointed to a
position of great trust, protecting the bishop from
enemies without and within . An official gesture of
confidence in the sincerity of your conversion ."
"Or a gesture of your confidence, anyway ." I couldn't
help sounding bitter . If drinking down the archon I'd
slaved under for 20 years didn't quite qualify me as ex-
Cam-a-ree-yah, it was pretty goddamn hard to think
what would.
He laughed out loud . "Of course you're wary of a
stranger's kindness ."
"Are you investigating this Stimson?"
"If I were, Nadia, I'd never be that obvious about
it." Evidently this was grand comedy . "No, it's really
this simple : your reception at the Palla Grande is,
unfortunately, the reception you can expect most
places. Howsoever you bust your well-toned ass, you
just won't convince certain people that you're not
biding your time to turn on us . Especially since .. ." Here
he stubbed out his joint into the ashtray he'd brought
along . His face darkened . "Milan ."
"Giangaleazzo wasn't Ivory Tower alum," I
pointed out .
"Point is, anything seems possible right now . The
Sabbat's more on its collective guard now than it has been
for a century. Which bodes well for some things, but badly
for you . And I happen to believe you're a resource we can't
afford to waste . Now granted, I won't complain if some
good karma comes back to me . But don't sit up days
wondering what I want out of you in return."
A little Spanish accent had seeped into his mellowing
voice . It suddenly hit me that he must be
going through the motions of getting high so I wouldn't
be all intimidated by the big bad Inquisitor and clam
up . There was no point speculating about motives
here . If he had them, I wasn't going to find out about
them tonight . And I needed the protection too bad to
say no anyway.
"Well, I just hope your Stimson's going to explain
about this templar business when I get there," I said at
last. "I mean, I know the basic concept, but at this stage
of things I'd sure hate to make a faux pas ."
"I could explain it to you," he said, smiling .
"Go for it ."
TEMPLARS
"For templar most Sabbat just translate flunky," he
began wryly. "You may already have noticed it's the
fashion among us to pretend, as far as possible, that
we're each of us a sovereign nation making treaties
with other sovereign nations - that nothing so prosaic
as obedience ever enters into it ."
"That's the rhetoric, yeah ."
"Having been Camarilla," he said it without the
soft, Spanish double-l's, "I trust you know servitude
when you see it, and that there can be honor in serving
when that service is taken as the precious gift it is . In
fact, flunky isn't a bad translation, just because it's such
a broad word and so is templar - though that wasn't
always the case . Short history lesson : the human
Templars were an order of knights, quasi-clergy really,
pledged to escort pilgrims along the pilgrimage routes .
And so we borrowed the term for the bodyguards who
traveled with our leaders, for obvious reasons ."
"Just keeping up with that cute little blasphemy
theme ."
"Exactly. What better accompaniment for a bishop
than a knight templar?" He chuckled . "But of course
our leaders quickly found it useful to have traveling
companions that could do more than just guard them
on the road . Not to mention the fact that their other
assistants were also expected to join them in battle
whenever it was called for, which was often in those
bloody nights, so it sometimes got very difficult to tell
the templars from the other sorts of -"
CHAPTERTwo: CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
43
THE ANOINTING
The Anointing is technically of the ignoblis
ritae. Some Sabbat, particularly its recipients, feel
it deserves better, but it was evidently invented
after the original 13 auctoritas ritae, and few priests
want to disturb the ancient numerology . Ignoblis or
not, however, it still plays a large part in the
creation of certain kinds of officials .
The Anointing consecrates a vampire to the
higher service of Caine-it is similar in purpose to
a Blood Bath, but conducted on a far smaller scale.
Whereas a Blood Bath often involves many participants,
along with a few select peers and superiors for
endorsement purposes, an Anointing usually consists
simply of the candidate and priest ; the
candidate's new superior ; a few of the candidate's
new colleagues ; a few of the superior's colleagues;
and possibly - a mark of favor - the superior's
superior . Instead of a bathing vessel, all the partici
pants (including the candidate) bleed into a large
goblet, from which the priest proceeds to anoint the
candidate upon the forehead, eyelids, hands, feet,
and fangs, all the while sermonizing to her about her
new duties. The candidate may or may not make a
formal oath to her immediate superior, but she
usually at least places her hands within the superior's
in a silent echo of the old feudal gesture . The cup is
consecrated as a Vaulderie cup before the Anointing
and shared around the company afterward .
Most templars are consecrated by an Anointing;
even those meant to work in great secrecy are
treated to at least a two- or three-person version of
the ritual with the bare minimum of priest, candidate,
and superior (the priest and the superior can
be the same person). Many Inquisitors and paladins
are also consecrated by the Anointing . Some
of the more powerful and notorious among them,
however, insist on a full Blood Bath, provided they
have the personal clout to command such an
attendance . The Inquisitors and their templars
usually add yet another element to their Anointings :
an oath and "ordeal of faith" upon an Iron Reliquary
(see the "Anointed Panoply" sidebar later in
this chapter), which they - perhaps superstitiously
- believe guards against the induction of
heretics and infernalists .
"Caine's Anointed," or simply "the Anointed,"
then, is the title commonly used to refer to templars,
paladins, and Inquisitors . Bishops and other high
Sabbat officials, however, have come to like the
lofty sound of the phrase, and sometimes apply it to
themselves as well .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
44
"Flunky."
"Right . These nights, most of the vees specifically
appointed to serve a high Sabbat official are called templars ."
"High official meaning a bishop, an archbishop . . ."
"Bishops, archbishops, Inquisitors, cardinals, prisci
- even the regent herself can all appoint templars ."
I frowned . "It's got to be a slightly different job
depending on which."
CITY TEMPLARS
"Well, yes . The term's a catch-all, but we do
observe some distinctions . For instance, theoretically
you'll be serving Stimson as what's called a city templar ."
"Theoretically . . ."
"If she ends up sending you out to handle espionage
all the time, you'll be a city templar in name only .
You'll have to take that up with her . But generally
speaking, a city templar is someone who serves a
bishop or archbishop, providing both personal protection
and assistance with the city's affairs ."
"Kinda like a Camarilla sheriff."
"Mmm." Navarrese nodded thoughtfully . "Sheriff,
harpy, Keeper of Elysium, even scourge . . . it could
amount to all that and more, really, depending on your
abilities and her agendas ."
"Care to get any more specific?"
ENFORCEMENT
"Forgive me, Nadia ; of course . Let's see . The job
usually entails dealing with the packs in the area . Most
of the packs in and around Nogales are well-seasoned,
so you shouldn't have to do too much advising -
luckily, since even the dumbest shovelheads tend to
take umbrage at being lectured . However, you'll probably
need to mete out discipline on occasion ."
"Discipline's always a problem in a border zone ."
"The Cathayans'll gladly make you pay for any
lapses in that regard, true," Navarrese returned lazily .
"And a border is temptation made manifest . But even
Mexico City must stand just as vigilant as Nogales .
Title guarantees nothing among us . I'm sure many
bishops and archbishops would love to claim something
like a Caine-given right to rule - you don't
think the assumption of clerical honors was just a sick
joke, do you? But the fact remains that their only real
mandate comes from the blood and approval of their
fellow Sabbat . Even more than your princes, they rule
at the sufferance of others ."
"And the suffering part is where I come in," I guessed .
He smirked . "That's not exactly what I meant . Now
your late employer ..." He gave me a questioning look .
"It's all an open book. I don't hide anything about
the Camarilla from you people ."
"He understood the principle, didn't he? He must
have been a powerful Cainite . Powerful enough to
handle the average scion of the Camarilla, anyway ."
"Sure, the average ones . Not the elders, and they
were more than half the trouble ."
"I daresay . Yet he had you doing a lot of the brassknuckle
work. . . work he probably could have done
himself, perhaps even better?"
I bristled . "He could bust heads when he had to,
yeah. But it was so much more comfortable to put my
ass on the line ."
"Certainly . And if those you disciplined were
going to hate someone ..."
"It's a hell of a lot easier to hate the one who
actually smashed your fangs in ."
"Exactly ." He half-turned toward me now, dangling
one hairy leg off the ledge . "Distance is a strategy, Nadia .
The bishops and archbishops know this. Even when
they can do something for themselves, they often choose
not to . Think about it . If I asked you to pass yourself off
as a duchess for a week, could you do it?"
"Pfft," was my only answer.
"But for an hour."
"For an hour, sure, if someone taught me how . I
can pretend to be just about anything for an hour . I've
done it enough times ."
"That's what I'm getting at . The more aloof they
are, the easier it is to shape themselves to the needs of
the moment when they do put in an appearance . .. and
those occasions will be all the more impressive for their
rarity. Our bishops and archbishops have learned to
trade on potentiality . Some of them have raised it to an
art form ." He snorted. "They act only when they're
forced to, since any time they take a concrete step in
one direction they're closing off a thousand other
possibilities, a thousand other things their fellow Sabbat
might be ready to believe of them ."
MORTAL AFFAIRS
"Sounds way too familiar," I grumbled . "I hope
you're not saying Stimson's like that ."
"No, no . I wouldn't doom you to a repetition of
what you've already suffered . Stimson's much better
than most . But even she will probably hand you any
number of tasks she's perfectly capable of doing herself,
just because that's the game she has to play . Supposing,
for instance, some trouble comes up with the local
mortals. Obviously someone's got to fix it, and she'd
certainly rather it wasn't her . That might look like she
felt they were in need of shepherding, which might
look like she considered them a threat ..."
"And Sabbat aren't supposed to be afraid of mortals."
I'd been on the wrong end of a hunter's stake
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
45
before, so my faith in this particular pillar of Sabbat
belief wasn't exactly such as to remove mountains .
He nodded. "Of course there's a big difference
between cowering from and pandering to the mortals
on general principle, the way the Camarilla does, and
moving to defend yourself and your sect when a
genuine threat arises . But unfortunately, the latter
can look a hell of a lot like the former . And if Stimson
were to make such a move, you can be sure her fellow
bishops would quickly get what mileage they could
from the ridicule ."
"So she'll send me to do it instead . But the other
bishops would still know she was taking care of it
through her flunky, so what does that help?"
"That's true . It seems like every time a kine problem
rears its ugly head in a city that's bishops' domain,
the whole thing turns into a silly waiting game -each
bishop hoping one of his colleagues will find the
matter more personally urgent . Sometimes they wait
so long, things get totally out of hand . But for the
vigilance of our cardinals over the past few centuries,
I strongly doubt the Camarilla would have much of a
Masquerade left to worry about by now ."
Aha. One of the things I'd always wondered about
the Sabbat was, if they didn't really care about the
Masquerade, how come the world hadn't found out all
about us yet? So that was it . They cared, they just didn't
want to call it caring. Your rep rode on how little you
could appear to care . That was good to know .
"On the other hand," Navarrese continued, "occasionally
a bishop does come along who actually takes
on the role of kine-herder for a city . No one approves,
but it happens . It's like becoming a vice-lord - sacrificing
the respect of your peers for what can actually
amount to great power when it's played right . If you
can put up with being constantly underestimated, with
being a convenient scapegoat, it's not a bad angle . I
mention this because I hear that one of Nogales' newer
bishops is auditioning for the part . Stimson may ask
you to dabble in mortal affairs now and then just to
keep tabs on how well he's doing, whether he's upsetting
the balance of power ."
POMP AND CIRCUM5TANCE
"Okay." So far it sounded like I was going to be
doing a lot of shit-work -surprise, surprise . At least I
knew I was good at shit-work . "Isn't there anything a
little more, uh. . . prestigious . . . that goes with the job?
I thought this was a position a lot of Sabbat wanted ."
"Oh, no. No, no, no, you're getting the wrong
idea," Navarrese exclaimed, sitting up . "Apologies,
Nadia. I never meant to imply this thing wouldn't have
its perks . Of course it does . I just wanted to warn you . . .
if you learned all you know about the Sabbat from what
.
filters through via the anarchs and Ivory Tower elders,
you might be due for a rude awakening . Despite the
Inquisition's centuries of work, you'll still find a lot of
romantic heterodox notions floating around among
the young of our sect . . . notions about power without
price and freedom without responsibility . Even some
longtime Sabbat still buy that shit ."
"I had my rude awakening back at the ball,
Navarrese, thanks ."
"The first of many, no doubt . But yes . The cloud is
well-lined . First off, there's the protection, the patronage
you'll gain from your bishop -but you know that ;
that's the whole reason we're doing this . Even if it
amuses the vatos and chicas to give attitude, they can't
really ignore who stands behind you . And Stimson will
stand behind you. She can't afford to let her templars
become laughingstocks . Moreover, many of your duties
will bring you honor, if you're good at them . You'll
probably at least help in arranging the city's major
ritae, for instance ."
"Everybody likes a gal who can throw a party," I joked .
"Yes, they do . You'll soon learn that there's much
more to the ritae than that ." He looked miffed for a
second. Right - Inquisitor. He already knew I wasn't
joining up because I gave fuck one about the
Antediluvians or anything like that, but I should still
watch out about being too flippant with the cult stuff .
"Sorry".
"Forgiven . How can you possibly know what you
haven't been taught?" He slowly drew his legs back up into
the bay window, un-sprawling. "But that'll be corrected ."
"So, organizing ritae ."
"Yes . And there's a lot of. .. what you could call
ambassadorial tasks. When Sabbat from elsewhere visit,
for example, especially Sabbat of rank . Traditionally
one of the local templars is appointed as escort, to
navigate them safely through the unfamiliar waters ."
I was instantly hip . "Uh-huh. I bet you get 'escorted'
everywhere you go ."
He half-smiled . "Well, yes. For some reason I tend
to make the natives restless . But on the other hand, it
never looks good for accidents to befall visiting dignitaries
. That raises questions most bishops and archbishops
would rather not answer. And while the autonomy of
our rank and file is one of the treasures of the Sabbat,
that same autonomy often leads packs to act rashly
when they come across a stranger on their turf -even
if the stranger claims to be a legitimate envoy and has
papers or something to back it up . Protecting someone
from such peril can win you allies, my dear, and you
never know when that might come in handy ."
"Yup, you never know . But you said ambassadorial
tasks, plural ."
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
46
"I did . City templars also serve as envoys themselves,
to neighboring Sabbat cities mostly, but also to
enclaves where the unaligned clans hold sway, or even
to more exotic venues . Nogales, for example, isn't all
that far from both Cathayan and anarch territory, and
while they're our enemies no less than the Camarilla,
one must occasionally parley with the enemy - as
you're well aware ."
"Usually when some even bigger enemy comes
along who can stomp you both ."
"Precisely . I've even heard of templars being sent
into nearby Camarilla domains to negotiate, in those
very rare instances when there was no other way .
There's an old tale of some ancient Camarilla hag in
France who lost herself utterly and rampaged over the
border into Spain . She was so powerful and depraved
that it actually took the combined might of the Catalan
Cainites of both sects to bring her down ."
"A wight. I've had to help hunt down a wight, now
and then."
"Odd that the Camarilla, with all its panting lust
for decorum, should give rise to so many of these . . .
intemperate creatures," Navarrese mused .
"I doubt the Sabbat's immune either."
"No.. . no, not immune . Like I said, there are too
many of us who absorb only the bits of our creed that
it's most dangerous to isolate . You can't unleash a
Beast you don't completely control and expect a happy
ending. But at least we possess the tools, the wisdom to
exert that genuine mastery. It only remains for us to
convince more of our people to take them up ."
OTHER DUTIES
He was starting to sound like a real elder, so I
guessed it was time for another joint . Two tendrils of
shadow snaked out from behind him, stealing across
the room. One floated over the coffee table and curled
down to pick up a single rolling paper . The other
headed over to the baggie I'd left on the bar . When I
was a kid at the zoo I used to be amazed how elephants
could pick up such skinny little sticks with their
trunks . This was a bit like watching that.
"Anything else I might have to do?"
"Anything conceivable, you might have to do," said
Navarrese . I was a bit disappointed that he actually rolled
the joint by hand . "Ah... yeah. You probably won't have
to worry about this much, since you'll be her most junior
templar. But bishops and even higher-ranking regional
officials do find themselves called away from home,
sometimes to attend a colloquium or a special ritus,
sometimes in wartime -especially if they possess some
particular expertise which they've had the bad luck to
become famous for . And they usually leave at least one
templar behind to look after things in their absence,
because when the cat's away, the mice fuck up everything
they possibly can. Since few such officials lack rivals of
equal or near-equal rank to worry about, you can conclude
this is no small trust. It's almost a bankable certainty
that whenever a bishop is gone, some other bishop in the
city will make a power grab . Even archbishops get trouble
from neighboring cities - particularly if their domains
are smaller and look like a good target for annexation ."
"Got it ." My inner bitch made a silent wisecrack
about how I should have brought a steno pad to take
notes. "Any more hats to wear, not that there aren't
enough already?"
TEAMWORK
"Well, as I said, you won't be Stimson's only
templar. But don't hope for anything like a clear
division of labor. We're talking about a bare handful of
people ; and while I'm sure Stimson parcels out tasks
with an eye to each templar's talents, there's too much
to do to let anyone really specialize. Of course it's a bit
different in the households of the great old archbishops,
who could wake up to a different templar each
night of the month if they wanted ."
"I'd hate to have to get along with 29 other
templars anyhow."
"That can be a problem," agreed Navarrese . "Even
among a handful, you may find you have to struggle,
jockey and pit people against each other just to avoid
the newcomer's usual fate of getting stuck with all the
garbage duties no one wants. There'll be the senior
templar, whose name I forget . What you can expect
from him depends on how secure he feels in his
position at any given moment, but one thing I urge you
to remember: his prestige with Stimson rides on his
ability to pretend that he has the rest of you in line ."
"You're saying I'll be able to get away with things,
because it's as much in his interests to cover up anything
naughty I do as it is in mine?"
"Um. . . what I'd been going to say is you could get
a lot of political mileage out of helping him preserve
that picture, and that'd probably be your wisest course
in the beginning . But I see you're no stranger to office
politics, so to speak, and I won't lecture you any further
on the subject ." He grinned .
"I've been around that block more times than I
care to count, yeah."
"Well, hopefully you'll all be too busy protecting the
border from the sect's enemies to indulge in too much
backstabbing-or, failing that, too busy competing with
the other bishops' templars to take each other down .
Sometimes that does happen, a sort of sports-team
mentality . One bishop's templars fail to contain a
problem, so another bishop's templars take the opportunity
to prove what a well-oiled machine they are .
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
47
Which is all fine, and conducive to the Sabbat's
welfare, as long as it's actually the templars taking the
initiative . When bishops and archbishops start treating
their templars like roosters in a cockfight, though,
things get messy."
"People who can't see the big picture ."
"Exactly ." I had hit his jackpot issue . His glance leapt
over to me like a stray spark . "Don't get me wrong, Nadia .
I uphold the sacred right of each Sabbat to take and
defend as much domain as he or his pack can handle .
Caine wills it so ; let the Camarilla trample the Second
Tradition underfoot, but we remain true to our father .
"Nevertheless - all that petty local bullshit must
end when the trumpet sounds . I can't tell you how
many times I've seen a crusade fail when the cardinal
and his warlords didn't obtain the support they were
explicitly promised, and all because each of two neighboring
archbishops was too worried about how his
neighbor might fuck him while his back was turned to
fully commit his resources . In the border areas, you get
the added problem of people developing these little ...
`don't ask, don't tell' arrangements with the nice folks
on the other side of the fence . If there's one thing I
would beg of you in your new post, Nadia, it's not to
succumb to this sort of provincialism ."
"I'll do what I can," I told him .
ITINERANT/ROVING TEMpLARS
You want to worry when a Keeper starts waxing
sincere on you . There was stuff I could have taken issue
with here - it crossed my mind that at least some of
these local officials he was complaining about would
probably complain right back that the cardinals didn't
give shit one about Joe Sabbat and liked to make
unrealistic demands that the guys on the ground had to
pay the price for. But it seemed smarter to steer the
conversation back to academia .
"Okay, so I think I understand the idea of a city
templar . You said there were other kinds?"
"Yes, the itinerant templars . Do bear in mind
that these aren't formal distinctions, Nadia - city
templar, itinerant templar . At your Anointing you'll
simply be consecrated a templar, and your duties will
consist of whatever the hell tickles Stimson's fancy,
no more and no less. I'm just trying to impose a little
structure on the ungovernable for your educational
benefit. So by itinerant templars I mean those who
serve their patrons in less localized fashion . In other
words, they rove from here to there ."
"Doing what?"
DUTIES
"Name it. Sometimes they're sent to spy on or even
assassinate someone-"
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
48
"Oh? I thought the Black Hand had the wet work
all sewn up," I retorted .
He quirked an eyebrow . "We can get into the
Black Hand later, if the light allows . But there are any
number of reasons an official might not want to use
their services . Roving templars also look after things
that affect many cities at once - or even the sect at
large . For instance, I know a number who specialize in
invasion tactics, advising bishops and archbishops in
frontier zones all over the world . Others deal with
Lupine infestations, with hunters, and so on . Some
are diplomats who are brought in to help calm things
down between feuding Sabbat cities, or between us
and the unaligned clans . A few even serve as Noddist
scholars and Cainite archaeologists, trying to piece
together our shared story through the fragments that
come to the sect's attention - and stepping in to
intervene when an artifact threatens to fall into the
wrong hands ."
"I have to assume folks like that don't usually work
for lowly bishops ."
"Not usually, no. Most of these guys work for
cardinals and the greatest archbishops - or for the
prisci, whose authority isn't measured in square miles
anyway. It's not unknown, though, for someone of
more modest rank to create a templar and send him out
into the world . Now generally the roving templars are
given a very specific trust to attend to . But a few act on
their master's behalf in all things, serving as his eyes,
ears, mouth and talons all at once."
UNDERCOVER WORK
"If I was going to make templars to do that, I'd make
at least some of `em undercover - aces up my sleeve ."
"Absolutely," agreed Navarrese . "Cardinals do that
all the time. They'll send out their lesser-known
templars to an area they're worried about and let them
gather intelligence incognito . Then, depending on
what they learn, they might instruct the templars to
reveal themselves, to act secretly, or to leave. Even
with the little guys - when a bishop or archbishop
does decide to meddle in other cities' affairs and
appoints a templar for the purpose, you can sure as hell
expect that to be a covert op ."
"And forays into the Camarilla'd naturally be
covert too ."
"Yes. Most of our really skilled double agents -
and there aren't as many as the Camarilla elders like to
fantasize - work for our prisci and cardinals . That's
dangerous work . There's the risk of discovery, and
worse, the risk of conversion . I don't want to get into
it tonight, but the measures we've come up with to
protect against those risks often need the skill and
authority of a true elder to put in place ."
"Yeah, I've heard of some really wild Sabbat infiltrations,
Manchurian-candidate shit .. ." That didn't
draw him out, though, so I moved on . "So what you're
basically saying about these roving templars is, their
job description's shorter than mine but they have to go
all over the place to do it ."
"Right. If you were going to boil it down, that's
what it'd boil down to . But that changes everything
about it, everything about how you work ."
RELATIONS WITH OTHERS
"Well, you'd be on your own more of the time,
that's for sure," I mused .
"Yes and no. If you're working aboveboard, under
the authority of someone who deserves to be messing
around in whatever you're messing around in, you
should be able to get help from the locals ."
"Which, I assume, is a big if ."
FOR YOUR EYES ONLY
Perilous obstacles face the Sabbat vampire who
would infiltrate the Camarilla or the Independents :
• Ignorance of the customs : The Camarilla is
among the least secretive of Cainite societies (to
other Cainites, that is), but its structure, rules and
mores are among the most complex - even natives
frequently trip up . As for the independent
clans, they're generally very secretive about their
clan cultures, complex or not .
• The Vaulderie : It's hard to hear the bishop
toward whom you have a high Vinculum vilified
like a straw man in the prince's open court . While
the Vinculum lacks the power of a full blood
bond, it still elicits strong feelings that an undercover
agent can hardly afford to express (what if
a packmate ends up captured by the enemy?) .
Moreover, agents used to relying on the Vaulderie
as a source of inner strength often feel hopelessly
cut adrift when they must go without during a
covert endeavor, whether in enemy territory or
anywhere else .
• Strength of belief: The more devoted a
Sabbat agent is to the core beliefs of the sect-and
rest assured, agents are rarely considered for this
kind of work unless their orthodoxy is unassailable
-the harder it is to tolerate the many little "sins"
that must be committed in order to blend in with
the heathens . Sabbat on Paths of Enlightenment
suffer even more than most. If they compromise,
they jeopardize their Path standing, and if they
don't, they may seem suspiciously alien to the very
people they're hoping to fool .
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
49
"Oh yeah," he agreed. "And even then the locals
don't always cooperate as they should- that provincialism
thing again."
"At least you wouldn't have a bishop or archbishop
leaning on you every night, like I will in Nogales ."
"No, though on the other hand, the patrons of
itinerant templars aren't any more tolerant of failure
than the patrons of city templars, and they're less likely
to believe any excuses you come up with, since they
have less way of knowing what you've been up to."
"I notice you didn't say no way of knowing ."
He let that pass without comment . "Although of
course, not knowing what their templars are up to out
in the wide world is useful insulation for them as well ."
"What do they call that in the movies? Plausible
deniability?"
"Right," Navarrese exclaimed delightedly . "Plausible
deniability . Ridiculous phrase . I love it. It's very
easy for a roving templar's superior to claim complete
innocence of his actions when necessary. . . which is
good and bad for the templar, of course ."
"I can sure as shit see how it'd be bad ." I'd been on
the bad end of such a thing before myself .
"Well, it's also good because it means the superior's
usually more willing to grant the templar a wider latitude,
since he himself is less likely robe held responsible ."
"I guess so . It's a tradeoff. So that's how it is for
these roving templars, while in my case ..."
"In your case, you'll be more closely watched, but
it'll be harder for Stimson to dissociate herself from you
if you get in trouble, which means she's got a vested
interest in protecting you . Roving templars don't usually
have that going for them ."
"Sounds to me like the roving templars would
want to get dirt on their superiors as quick as possible,
then, for insurance purposes ."
"Bravo!" he exclaimed. "See what I mean? A resource
we can't afford to lose . If only I could send all our
would-be templars to the Camarilla for a little training
in intrigue. Most Sabbat don't want to think that
someone they've shared the Vaulderie with, as most
templars have with their superiors, could betray them,
but it does happen sometimes . Not as frequently as
Camarilla betray each other, from what I understandthanks
be to Caine . Still, you should be aware that many
of your fellow templars, particularly the itinerant sort,
will have taken steps to protect themselves from just
that sort of double-cross ."
"I believe it . What about the opposite?"
"Templars betraying their masters? Of course . Our
sect doesn't lack for the ambitious, those who would
twist or even ignore our most sacred principles just to
L*
feed their lust to dominate . That's why the Inquisition
was created, my dear ."
"Ah." I'd thought the Inquisitors were supposed to
be about catching demon-worshippers . Come back to
that later, though ; I was still trying to cram all this
templar stuff into my brain, and one subject at a time
was more than enough .
TEAMWORK
"Don't the roving templars ever work with each
other?" I asked .
"Sure, sometimes . They don't cooperate all that
smoothly, since they're not as used to the compromises
of teamwork as city templars, but occasions sometimes
come up that leave no other choice ."
"Like war."
"Like war, like schism. As I said, a certain amount
of competition keeps us all hale and fit, but when big
factions of the sect start shearing apart, it's time to step
in. Much as I admired Moncada for his integrity, courage,
and intellect, for instance, he did tend to cause stark
divisions among his fellow Sabbat whenever he interfered
in affairs outside his own domain . We're having
enough trouble in the Americas . The last thing we need
to do is give the elders in the European Camarilla the
idea that the Old World Sabbat might collapse from its
own internal squabbles . But that's off-topic, excuse me."
"Not a problem."
"Most of the time when roving templars get together,
it's strictly an ad hoc thing, favor-swapping . As
I was saying, however, crises do arise, and when that
happens, someone-usually a priscus or a pair of prisci
- may put a sort of templar task force together from
the staff of several high officials . Sounds like an invitation
to disaster, no? Well, it can be . But a regular
Vaulderie helps smooth over a few of the rough edges,
and common cause works its own wonders . Actually,
I've seen some great Sabbat coups masterminded by
templars whose respective masters couldn't stand the
sight of each other ."
"Sounds like you've got some stories I want to hear
another time ."
"As you like, Nadia, as you like ."
"But most of the time, they're working totally alone?"
AID AND COMFORT
"Well, rarely totally alone . I keep forgetting to
mention something very important about templars of
all kinds. Most recruit assistants, temporarily or permanently..
. the way your archon recruited you ."
"They're called servires in the Camarilla," I supplied .
"I see . Only I don't know how it is between
archons and their servires, but the relationship I'm
talking about is totally informal ."
ARCHON S AND TEMPLARS
50
"It's pretty informal between archons and their
servires, too ."
"Ah. Well, then you're on familiar ground there .
Except I understand that all good Camarilla Cainites
are obliged to cooperate with any archon who commands
it so?"
"Yes and no," I said (felt good to fling that expression
back at him) . "Depends on who you ask . The
justicars and archons would sure as hell agree . If they
can make a case that you stood in the way of them
doing their job, they can get your prince to punish you,
or even put you on trial if they're really pissed ."
"Yes, just so. I'm afraid no templar can really
require assistance of his fellow Sabbat - though if
you're competent, the Nogales packs will quickly learn
it's in their interests to stay on your good side ."
"Hopefully ."
"And the sweet part is, it is a package deal . If a
ductus decides to help you, even the packmates who
don't agree usually go along with it . So instead of a
gaggle of individuals all looking out for number one,
you'll command a group of people who share ties of
blood and cooperate every night for survival ."
"That's true." Or it sure would be keen if it was .
After all, trying to get the locals' help in a Camarilla
city was like herding cats . Of course the prince always
called everybody into court and told them to be real
helpful to the nice archon's servire, now, and everybody
would nod so politely and then go right back to
doing what they damn well pleased . It'd be a lovely
change to only have to kiss five out of 20 asses to get all
twenty's cooperation .
"People who work for a templar aren't called
anything special?" I asked.
"Nothing uniform. Sometimes in Europe they speak
of squires, but our American cousins seem to find such
talk obnoxious ." He smirked. "And I have to warn you
that even a pack of rank fledglings probably won't stay
by a templar's side for long, however great their admiration.
There's a real stigma about anything that looks like
sucking up . For sidekicks, secretaries, valets and such,
you'll have to look to your own packmates ."
"Oh, so I will have a pack ."
TEMPLAR PACKS
"Of course you'll have a pack . Well, almost all the
time, that is . Which may or may not consist of Stimson's
other templars - I doubt she'll force such a choice on
you, even if she prefers her templars to work as a pack .
However, it is customary for city templars to take
Vaulderie together with their official at least occasionally,
even if they belong to different packs ."
"Not surprising," I said dryly . "And roving templars?"
"Same thing. In fact, they may have to share the
cup even more often, just to remind them that however
much time they spend out in the field, they should
also feel able to rely on the aid of their colleagues and
their master whenever they need to ."
"Right. And what you were saying just now, Navarrese,
about being able to use my packmates as flunkies ..."
"It's a possibility, depending on who's in your pack
and what role you play within it. Hopefully you'll be
pack ductus . But even if you aren't, you should be able
to get at least one little brother or sister under your
patronage . Sabbat don't mind playing backup to a
packmate nearly as much as to an outsider, because
packmates have a sacred duty to be there for each
other . Most people would rather think of themselves as
a team player than a flunky, and the brotherhood of the
pack allows them that fiction ."
"And if I'm smart, I won't say or do anything that
takes that little myth away from them, at least not in
front of other packs ."
"Bingo."
TEMPLARS ESCORT
"So is that it for templars, or . . ."
"Hrm." Navarrese sat up again to crack the window
open. Cool marine air bled into the room . I
suddenly remembered something my old bastard boss
had said about the Lasombra, some legend about their
ancestor falling in love with a siren or selkie or something,
and diving down into the deep fathoms to
search a hundred years for her . Who knows? Fairy-tale
garbage, I'd always guessed .
"There's the itinerant templars who wander because
their patrons wander," he said at last . "Of all
templars, I guess they're most like the old definition .
The prisci, especially, tend to move from place to
place, and they take their favorites with them, usually
as packmates ."
"So sometimes templars are in a pack with their boss ."
"Oh, yes, particularly the sort of templar I'm talking
about . Sorry-a permutation I hadn't mentioned .
Anyway, sometimes these `templars escort' simply
serve as bodyguards, secretaries, or priests. Sometimes,
though, they're entrusted with administration, diplomacy.
. . you know : spy-work."
"I bet a templar like that's got a hard row to hoe,"
I commented . "You don't have the help of local
people that know you, and you've got your boss right
there all the time . It's the bad part of being a roving
templar, rolled together with the bad part of being a
city templar ."
Navarrese shrugged . "Having the boss there isn't all
bad. For one thing, the boss is usually no slouch in a
CHAPTERTwo: CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
51
fight, and might - might - stand up for you if you're
being ill-treated . Although I'll warn you that among us,
needing a superior's help is a blow to personal honor, so
most superiors won't interfere unless their own prestige
is threatened by what's happening to you ."
"But these prisci, if they're packmates with you and
sharing the cup and all, wouldn't that . . . I mean, doesn't
that mean anything to them?" I objected . "Or does it
only mean something to the templar, becau-"
"Of course it means something . It means a great
deal," he broke in . "The Vaulderie. . ."
"Is sacred ."
"Right . Smartass . But the Vaulderie is not the
slavery of the blood bond, Nadia . You must understand
that it won't force you into things, not in the way you're
regrettably used to . Nor does it force anyone else, older
or younger, to lay down their unlife for you against their
will. I'm sure you'll agree that's preferable ."
"Well, you know how I feel about the blood bond,
so yeah ." I'd already shared the Vaulderie a couple times
with different people . . . a small Vaulderie with Bishop
Drew in Buffalo right after I cried sanctuary and a huge
one at the Baltimore Palla Grande a month later . So far
I didn't feel anything from it. On the other hand, I
hadn't seen any of those folks again since, except for
Navarrese, and he was just one of a hundred bleeding
into the goblet that night. So I felt a little suspicious that
a pack Vaulderie was a lot stronger than he was trying to
make out. If he read my mind and saw that, oh well.
ADVANCEMENT OPPORTUNITIES
"One thing I'm sure you're wondering about," the
Lasombra added thoughtfully . "A fine templar - right
now I'm thinking of the templars escort, since they know
their patrons most intimately of all, but this also goes for
city templars and even some roving templars -can end
up being considered a sort of heir apparent . Then, when
the priscus or what-have-you is killed, that templar tries
to assume his place . If he hasn't made too many local
enemies, he'll probably succeed . Unless of course the
priscus was killed by a rival Sabbat, in Monomacy, say ; in
which case the rival assumes the post, and the ex-templars
now have a little problem on their hands ."
"I can imagine . Or if an official is just thrown out
or disgraced or something, the templars have a little
problem then too ."
"Indeed they do ."
"Let me tell you, I got real sick of heirs apparent in
the archons' servires - I mean people who joined up
hoping to get made archons themselves . They were
fucking obnoxious . .. some of `em even tried to get
other servires killed, just to be rid of the competition ."
"Some even tried to get the archon killed, I bet ."
"Shit, yeah . And when you work for the guy, it's a
lot easier to arrange . Well?"
"Well? Yes . It happens in the Sabbat too ."
"I kinda figured it did. Can templars whose bosses
get killed get a new boss and go on being templars?"
"There's nothing stopping them, if they want to . It
all comes down to politics . It's traditional, though, that
when an official dies honorably in service to the Sword
of Caine, the surviving templars are taken in, either by
the replacement or by some other allied official ."
"And a good time is had by all ."
"Hey, career moves come in many forms ."
PALADINS
A patch of shadow had been lurking behind
and under me, kind of like a really good attack dog
that would never actually bite you without the goahead,
but it'll sure as hell sit there and menace you
on general principle till it gets that word . I don't
know why, maybe it was just the light shifting as
the moon moved, but now the shadow started
oozing over me all cool and damp, stirring the little
hairs on my arm .
"Uh . . . Navarrese . . . Senor Inquisitorio . . ."
"Apologies." Navarrese flicked it a glance and it
poured back into the comer .
"Must come in handy when you need to put the
fear of Caine into the infernalists . . ." I kidded him .
"Fear of the true dark, is more like it ." It sounded
like he was smirking again, but when I looked over his
face was straight as a judge's. "I do hope your Spanish
is a bit better than that?"
"Nope. How long do I have?"
"Three months."
"Do what I can. I teamed French pretty fast when I had
to. The old bastard said it was better than my English ."
"Sounds like a tightass," he remarked .
"He was." Let Navarrese just get those details
himself if he had to . I'd already told my sad story to
Bishop Drew and it was on record for whoever wanted
it bad enough . "Okay . What about paladins?"
"You mean, what is a paladin?" he asked .
"Well, I thought paladins were templars . Or vice
versa . Am I screwed up?"
"No, no. It's a mistake, all right, but an easy one to
make. Actually I suppose in a way paladins are templars ."
"Okay, now you sound as confused as I am ."
"It's . . . complicated . I'll try to explain ."
"Shoot."
ORIGINS
"Well, again, the name is stolen . We'll know the
Cainites have regained their true place when mortals
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
52
start stealing words from us, like they did in ancient
times. Charlemagne appointed a council of 12 paladins,
great knights and peers charged to attend and
advise him . Roland, for example, was his paladin . And
he took the word in turn from the Latin word palatines,
`of the palace'- as in the old Roman emperors' scholae
palatinae, their elite guard ." He gave me a look .
"If it wasn't in Ben-Hur, Cleopatra or Gladiator, I'm
not gonna know about it ."
"You must've been a hit in the Camarilla salons ."
I was, in fact . "So these guys are elite ."
"Yes. By long tradition, the only Sabbat with a
right to the title of paladin is one who sits on a
cardinal's Table of Twelve -12 paladins, in homage
to Charlemagne ."
"Or to Jesus and the Apostles ."
"She shoots, she scores . Sometimes they are called
Apostles as a snide reference . Anyway, you can think
of them as joint chiefs of staff, a privy council, champions
of the realm - whatever. The paladins' main
duty is to assemble at Table, debate policy, and advise
the cardinal of the results. There's no set interval for
Table meetings. It could be anything from once a year
to once a week, depending on the current state of the
union, so to speak . Most of them are able war-chiefs
too, and serve as such when needed . They also get sent
out on special assignments . I should mention that
there are a few very old, very powerful archbishops
who've gained the customary right to a Table of
Twelve as well . Moncada was one such, for example ."
"Okay. So the paladins do for the cardinals and these
couple archbishops what the prisci do for the regent?"
"That's not a bad way to look at it," he agreed .
"Except that even more paladins than prisci are warriors
by trade and nature . First, since it's only right that
anyone called paladin should be a warrior, and second,
because most of them get picked from among the
templars of the area ."
"You mean the cardinal snatches up some archbishop's
templar, like, and says `hey you, come be a paladin'?"
"More or less ."
"Doesn't that piss off the archbishop?"
"Sometimes ." Navarrese looked amused . "Although
it can be a blessing as well, not only to the
archbishop but even to the cardinal . More than a few
of those chosen to become paladins were chosen because
they proved themselves dangerously competent
and ambitious ... they have that `lean and hungry look,'
as the Bard put it ."
"So the cardinal makes `em a paladin to keep
`em honest ."
"Exactly . That, and it's a fairly high honor to have
a paladin drafted from your own retinue . Kind of like
being a teacher who tutors a prodigal student . Being
anointed paladin brings great fame, thus great public
scrutiny . Even young Sabbat try to learn the names of
their cardinal's Table of Twelve . And the cardinal sees
to it that those paladins who pose a real threat are kept
the busiest. I hate to go back to ancient Rome in light
of your .. . cinematic understanding of the subject, but
actually the movies can demonstrate my point . Ever
notice how Caesar seems to wind up sending his most
brilliant and charismatic generals out into the
godforsaken hinterlands of the Empire to fight the
massing barbarian hordes?"
"Sure . Because if they were home, they'd just be
whipping up a big batch of trouble, trying to become
Caesar themselves ."
"By George, I think she's got it. Now, this little
strategy can backfire, just like in the movies . If your
general actually routs those barbarians, he's coming
back home to a hero's welcome at the head of a bloodforged
army, and then what do you do? Now I've also
seen a cardinal take exactly the opposite tack, appoint
a certain templar paladin and then ensure that he
never got the first opportunity to shine at his new job .
His political career withered on the vine in short order .
Then there are those who believe the old saw about
keeping your enemies closer; fortunately, a cardinal
can just as easily order a paladin to stay by his side every
waking moment. It's really his prerogative ."
"Nice guys, the cardinals ."
"They dance the same dance we all do, and it's
rather better for the sect if they're good at it, don't you
think?" Navarrese asked pointedly . "A leader who
can't put down potential rivals deserves to be stripped
of the position . I admit I do prefer it when the cardinals
can find a useful destination for their troublemakersthrowing
them against the aforementioned barbarian
hordes, for instance, benefits the Sabbat as a whole ."
"Okay, I think I get the difference now . Paladins
aren't templars, but a lot of them are former templars
so people get mixed up about it ."
"I'm afraid the confusion runs a little deeper than
that ." He shook his head . "You see, in the past century
or so, a bunch of less lofty officials have started anointing
their most senior templars as paladins . A few have
even tried to get a Table of Twelve together -'tried'
being the operative word there ."
"So what? I thought moxie was a good thing in
the Sabbat ."
"Sure, but you have to understand the etiquette . If
some backwater bishop wants his top templar to be
called paladin and you need to flatter either of them,
go right ahead and do it, because there's no holy writ
anywhere that says you can't . Just don't let a cardinal's
paladin overhear you ."
CHAPTERTwo: CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
53
"I see what you mean . Or a cardinal, or anybody
else who might care about the convention ."
"There's a mindset there, Nadia, a mindset . Most
of these people are not modern . To them, being paladin
means unimpeachable honor, valor, and might. A
stain on one paladin is a stain upon them all . So they
get real unhappy when they see dimwit whelps prancing
around pretending to the title ."
"Got it ." Another nice pitfall to know about.
There are always pitfalls . I just hoped it was in
Navarrese's interest to steer me straight . You'd think it
was . He'd publicly stuck his neck out for an ex-
Camarilla girl nobody wanted to touch back at the
ball, and now he was getting me this job . .. it wouldn't
look good for him if I flopped . I kept telling myself that .
THE INQUISITION
"Are you in need of refreshment, Nadia?"
I've always hated the way Kind- Cainites say
`refreshment .' It used to be such a nothing word, but
now I can't hear anybody say it in that special tone of
voice without suddenly getting thirsty .
"Yeah," I admitted .
"A moment." He finished off the joint and dropped
it in the ashtray with its late brothers . There was a
veritable fog bank in the room by now - I bet the
whole building stank of pot. He'd probably been at this
for several hours, and maybe it wasn't my business, but
it looked like a losing battle to me . From what I could
tell, the man was only capable of staying so calm when
he talked about sect stuff.
I sat quiet while he went in the other room . There
was a low moan, mumbled conversation . Damn, he'd
had somebody back there the whole time?
"Bon appetit ." He resurfaced with two big pint
glasses in each hand and handed me one of them .
"HIV-negative, just like I asked for in the ad . Or at
least he thinks he is ."
"I'm not real worried about it either way ."
"It's the guest's duty to propose the first toast," he
reminded me.
"To. . . new horizons ."
"Hear, hear . To what lies beyond them ."
"Fair enough ." He drained his first glass in good
style . Mine was good, rich, warm - and laced with
a dash of something in the barbiturate family, not
that that should come as a big shock . That voice had
sounded pretty damn calm given that Navarrese was
unburdening its owner of a good deal more than
most people liked to part with . But it didn't seem
strong enough to really fuck me up if I just had the
one, so I drank .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
54
"Okay," I began. "So we've now been through
every kind of templar there is, except for two ."
"I was wondering if you caught that," he replied,
the corners of his eyes crinkling up a little .
"Like a steel trap, senor," I tapped my temple .
"Templars who work for the regent and templars who
work for the Inquisitors ."
"Right . Well, with your kind permission, I'll skip over
the ones that work for the regent . Most of her templars
really are flunkies- bodyservants, bodyguards . She has
the prisci, not to mention the cardinals, bishops, and
archbishops, to call on for more advanced favors ."
"True. That works . I'm happy to hear about your
templars instead- and about you, while we're at it ."
"Me specifically, or inquisitores - excuse me, Inquisitors
in general?"
"Yes."
I
INFERNALISTS
He snorted . "Well, you know at least some of what I
do. I strain pond scum like Brandenburg out of the pool ."
"Right. And he's an infernalist . I know you guys
catch devil-worshippers . But you were saying some
other stuff that made me think there's more to it ."
"Oh, there is . So many dangers face the Sabbat,
Nadia. The Camarilla is only the most obvious of
them. Nor are the Cainites of the Camarilla quite as
dangerous to us as their ideology is . We can survive
their outright attacks -we have for centuries, despite
their huge advantage of numbers - but if their blasphemies
ever manage to infect us and rot us from
within, we're done for ."
"So you.. . what, protect the Sabbat from bad ideas?"
"Mm. That's a little strong . I don't try to control
what other Sabbat think, though I could name other
Inquisitors who do, even a few who certainly ought to
know better by now . But the sect is founded on certain
basic principles, which it must not abandon - it
would die if it did, or, at the very least, cease to be the
Sabbat. So it's my duty to make sure those principles
are being upheld."
"Ah." I wasn't sure how to navigate here . If I just
let it go, that might not look good .
"It may seem hard to understand ." He tried to
catch me with his eyes . The instinct to look in elders'
eyes deferentially was pretty much ground into my
undead lizard-brain . "You're coming from the Camarilla
perspective. The Camarilla has the strength of
sameness: a hierarchy that gives precedence to age and
ancestry rather than merit, and thus, rarely changes
personnel. Our strength is the opposite . We're smaller,
fleeter . Just when you pin us down we shift; come back
to a Sabbat town five years later and the bishops'
ouncil might have completely turned over . Which is
as it must be . But without something constant to cling
to, we'd disintegrate into a scattering of separate packs,
ripe for crushing . Our sacred cause, fortunately, serves
that need. The cause and the faith that fuels it . So long
as those endure, we endure ."
"And that's what holds the Sabbat together . Lose
that focus, and you lose everything ."
"Well put . So you see why our ideas are of such
profound importance to us ."
"And everybody having the same idea ."
"All having the same faith . Yes ."
"And worshipping demons fucks that up."
"It's not hard to see why. Remember Gospel? `You
cannot serve both God and Mammon .' Any demon you
call up is looking to suborn your loyalty, your energy, your
very soul. Whatever you promise to them, you cannot
give to the cause - even if it's for the sake of the cause that
you're dealing with them . The Sabbat needs power, yes .
We must tap the deepest reserves of strength that we can
find . But the demons - and, while we're at it, the failures
who serve them and seek constantly to tempt us into their
vile slavery - ask a price we can't afford to pay ."
FOLLOWERS OF SET
"Well, you get no argument from me about that .
My archon had to take down an infernalist once . Some
things are just flat wrong ."
"Good. The same, by the way, goes for the snakes .. .
the brood of Set ."
"I thought you had those in the Sabbat ."
"Yes, but they're antitribu, just like our Brujah or
our Toreador. Even so, they do warrant keeping an eye
on - but no matter . I mean the faithful Followers of
Set, those still working the will of their father ... demon,
dark god or Hell-touched Damned, I don't care
what he really is . They're constantly baiting little traps
for the foolish among us . Sometimes it's my duty -
and a sad duty, let me tell you - to prosecute a Sabbat
who's done wonderful work for the sect for years, all
because he let himself get twined in the coils of one of
those idolaters ."
So getting in bed with Setites was actually against
the law, sort of. That was a distinct improvement over
Camarilla policy.
But I wanted clarification. "So you just mean
actually getting into debt with the snakes . .. not just
talking to them ."
"I don't even talk to them if I can help it ; I like
to remove as much temptation from my existence
as possible ."
"I'm just trying to figure out what I am and am not
allowed to do ."
CHAPTER Two : CA CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
55
"Well, you're not going to find it carved in stone
or even written on a cocktail napkin anywhere, my
dear. Sorry to disappoint . The list of things Sabbat are
specifically, formally forbidden to do is pretty damned
short . But watch yourself. Any Inquisitor has the
power to make a judgment call about your dealings . If
they seem hazardous to the sect at large, you could be
brought to trial . As the ex-toady of an archon, you've
already got a strike against you, and any enemies you
make will be well aware of that ."
"Yeah, so'm I ."
"I know you are ."
THE BLACK HAND
"What about the Black Hand?" I said after a minute .
"The Hand? They're Sabbat ."
"Are you sure, because somebody told me that the
Hand and the Inquisition hate each other ."
"Ah. Well, that's a common misunderstanding .
The Hand certainly harbors some heretics, just like
there are heretics among all Sabbat, but we're not
against the Hand in toto."
"Yeah, but misunderstandings come from somewhere,"
I prodded .
He considered . "The Inquisition and the Hand
observe a sort of apartheid . They don't join our
ranks and we don't join theirs . Templars are also
forbidden, by the way, to join the Hand . It all has
to do with the balance of power . The Hand is a
powerful weapon, permitted great secrecy, great
latitude in carrying out its missions. So is the
Inquisition . So the question arises, who watches
the watchers? The divide other Sabbat see is nothing
more than the old Lasombra principle of checks
and balances at work ."
"Lasombra principle?"
"Yes. In nights long past the princes of our clan
learned how to keep the throne, and the peace, in a city
by making sure every faction had a rival faction other
than the prince's own dynasty . Of course the Ventrue
were quick to steal the trick . . ." I gave him my do stop
shitting me look, but he soldiered on . "The cardinals,
archbishops and bishops have power, but the Inquisition
can strike them down as heretics if they betray the
sect . The Black Hand can be set against rogue Inquisitors
. The cardinals, archbishops and bishops command
the Hand's obedience . And all of the above are answerable
to the regent, so she can treasure some small
hope of knowing where the balance stands at any given
moment. See my point?"
"Can the Inquisition try members of the Black Hand?"
He started to say something, stopped, started, and
stopped again.
"Very good, Nadia . The answer is technically yes,
largely no . Powerful interests have protected the members
of the Hand for a long time now ."
"I gather the Inquisition would love to change that ."
"There are those of my brethren," he said somberly,
"who have wondered if they might be hiding something ."
My good old woman's intuition told me that's
where I should leave that subject .
OTHERS
"Okay. Anybody else I should watch out for if I
want to stay in good with you?"
"Well." He thought about it. "All the independent
clans have their own strange blasphemies, but
most of them don't go out of their way to ensnare us .
The Assamites.. . my worries about them are more
mundane than philosophical, especially if some of
them really are falling in with the Camarilla now ."
"I've heard the same rumors everybody has ." I
shrugged. "The Camarilla is worried, too . And the
Tremere are metaphorically shitting themselves ."
"Well, that does my old heart good . As for the
Giovanni family, they make the occasional
fortuneteller's pitch to us, dropping dark hints about
all the secrets they could tell us . They're still so
Venetian, they think everyone is a political juggling
ball that they can keep in the air forever . I treat them
as I'd treat any charlatan sorcerer : I give them nothing
of myself to work with, and if I catch them trying to
meddle with my younger brothers and sisters in the
Sabbat, I remind them that there are things in this
world worth fearing, too ."
The shadows in the room contracted in agreement .
"Then," he went on, "there are viler heresies .. . I doubt
you'll see hide or hair of them in Nogales, so I won't go
into the dreary details . But those wild maenads, the
bitches of Lilith, I'm afraid some of them are hiding
among us still, even after the purge a few decades back .
And I have a brother who insists that the blood-heresy
that haunted our clan in the Long Night isn't dead either.
The last thing we need is some evangelist of pseudo-
Gnostic bullshit getting everyone too focused on their
inner godling to pay attention when Gehenna knocks."
ANTEDILUVIANS
"Sounds rough ." I chewed on this . Lilith who?
"You said the Camarilla's ideas are dangerous too, but
that's got to be hard to guard against . I'm not the only
defector in the sect, Navarrese ."
"That's true . Luckily, the defectors don't have the
rosiest opinion of their former colleagues, and most of
them are youngsters anyway .. . the true poisoning of
mind and spirit takes time . But you can be sure we take
extra care to teach our converts their catechism ."
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
56
"Still ."
"Yes, still," he admitted. "We can't be sure of them all ;
we can't even be sure of our own . The Ancients are crafty .
That's why we Lasombra killed ours . It's why the Tzimisce
killed theirs . If only the others would follow us..."
"If everybody else killed theirs," I pointed out,
"your clanmates'd lose one of their excuses to lord it
over everybody like they do ."
"Caine forbid," he murmured ironically . "But surely
the logic of it appeals to you . It's only right that we and
our trans-Danubian colleagues should take a leading
role. We've cleansed ourselves of our ancestors'
puppeteering. Who else has accomplished that?"
"What about the Brujah?"
"According to the legend, that was a different
matter entirely ."
Well, to be honest, I wasn't clear on the legend either .
THIN-BLOODED
"Speaking of legends . ..what about all the weirdass
Caitiff that have been appearing lately, the ones so
weak-blooded people say they aren't even real
Cainites?"
"What about them?" he returned coolly . "They
just prove what the Sabbat's been saying all along .. .
that the prophecies are true and Gehenna will be upon
us soon . Their coming was foretold ."
"Well, but wait. You make enough Licks, soon
enough they're going to get weak-blooded. That's just
eschatological fact ."
"You're the one who brought it up," he challenged
with a small smile .
I didn't want to shoot my mouth off about something
he obviously thought he knew a lot more about,
but it was too late to get out of the dare .
"Well. There've been stories . Nostradamus kinda
shit. .. vees less than 10 years old knowing things they
can't possibly know about what elders have been
doing. I've heard a couple justicars say they should all
be made Anathema just to calm everybody back down ."
"Ah."
"But I don't guess that bothers the Sabbat . You'd
like knowing all about elders' dirty little secrets ."
"Most of us would, yes . Not the elders with dirty
little secrets, though ." The smile became a grin . "Actually,
I've been asked several times now to submit a
formal recommendation to my Inquisitor brothers and
sisters on the subject, but I haven't weighed in yet
because I think further study is needed. It's possible
these strange babes are a gift from Caine himself to lead
us to our destiny. It's just as possible they're sent by the
Antediluvians or, more likely, the fucking Inconnu to
throw us into chaos . Sometimes the devil tells a little
truth to begin with, just to trap you with a lie later on .
If I come across one in person, which I haven't yet, I'll
question the creature, certainly, but I won't kill it until
I understand what I'm dealing with ."
"What about the other Inquisitors?"
"Well, a few are absolutely convinced the Caitiffs
must be the catspaws of the Ancients, and right now
they're making a lot of noise about it -I won't add the
obvious bit about protesting too much . Most of the rest
believe they could be of great use to us, properly taught
and guided . If you stumble over one in the course of
your duties, you should probably bring it to Stimson,
and then write a letter to me, if you would ."
I nodded, promising nothing . "Noted."
NODDISM
"But anyway. We were talking about the fact that
the Lasombra and Tzimisce are the only clans to rise up
en masse against their founders, and so the only clans
that can call themselves free of the Ancients' meddling.
Many Inquisitors come from those two clans for
that very reason," he explained . "But it's also because
both clans have always taken such interest in the old
lore . After all, an Inquisitor is not an executioner . Not
by nature. Punishment is the necessary result of failure
- and I count every execution as my failure no less
than the condemned's - but our true purpose is to
redeem. We go among the packs as missionaries, and
we send our templars among the packs as well, to aid
the training of the priests, illuminating the Sermons of
Caine, passing along the ritae."
"And checking up on things ."
"Of course ." He frowned and reeled himself in,
cast a thoughtful glance at the bottom of empty glass
number two. "Unfortunately, our . . . heavenly choir
doesn't always sing in good ensemble . Most Inquisitors
consider themselves Nod's own scholars, and they all
have their pet theories . I wish they could keep their
academic squabbles out of the public forum . It just
confuses everybody . But there you go ."
"Sometimes academic squabbles get not so academic ."
"Yes. Orthodoxy is the crown of the soul, but I fear
it's also a valuable political weapon ."
"Especially when the unorthodox have to worry
about getting a little visit from you guys," I pointed out .
RESISTANCE
"True," he allowed . "And I'm afraid that in the
past, there've been corrupt Inquisitors - and even
some well-meaning but overly rigid ones -who treat
the word `heresy' as an umbrella term for anything they
don't consider proper conduct . While I agree that we
should expect no less than perfection in the faith from
every Sabbat, it is a bit counterproductive to go around
CHAPTERTwo: CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
5 7
burning people for peccadilloes and starting hysterical
witch-hunts . We don't have enough congregation as it
is, and while it's doubtless easier to punish the ignorant
than to instruct them, that engenders a lack of trust
which, in the end, makes it impossible for the rest of us
to do our fucking jobs ."
"I have noticed people get antsy around Inquisitors,"
I said dryly .
"Yeah, well, that's why . A few bad apples spoil the
barrel . Infernalism is the one bailiwick no one begrudges
us - nobody really argues that any contact
with demons is too much . On the other hand, much as
they might agree about the need to cut out every speck
of the demonic cancer among them, not all Sabbat like
to throw open the doors to their souls on demand .
Some do, though . The young innocents, in whom the
flame of ardor bums so high that it's honestly never
occurred to them to think a disloyal thought," he said
wistfully . "They challenge me to find fault with them .
If only there weren't always at least one Inquisitor
happy to take advantage of that innocence. For my
part, I try to leave them as I found them . Still, most
resist me. Not necessarily because they're afraid of
looking like infernalists, but because they have some
other little secret they don't want found out . Half my
job is simply ferreting out the sins I'm actually interested
in . A guilty look under questioning could mean
anything; the most dangerous thing is to assume ."
He lay down on his back, putting his feet up on the
wall of the bay window's box .
"And it gets worse whenever we announce that
we're looking for heretics, not just infernalists . Some
Inquisitors have gotten into the terrible habit of always
saying they're looking for demonolaters, even when
they're really looking for something else . Then they
end up bringing someone to trial for heresy . Gets
people paranoid ."
"I have to admit I'm a little paranoid about being
found heretical, myself."
"Apply yourself to your education, Nadia, and I'll
do what I can to protect you ."
"And what you said about enemies I might make,
what they might do ."
"I know of few Sabbat with no cause to worry about
that," he informed me . "All I can tell you is that most
Inquisitors really don't like playing the tool in someone
else's vendetta . That makes fools of us . We honestly
do try to ensure that any accusations brought to us are
sincere . Last century there was a tremendous scandal
over an Inquisitor named Csaba, which you may hear
about -we discovered he'd been taking orders from a
certain elder archbishop who preferred not to dirty her
own hands ."
"And?"
"And? They burned as quickly as anyone else . I
myself extracted and signed their confessions ."
INQUISITORIAL TRIALS
"How exactly does the trial work?" I asked . "Is it
like a conclave, or. . ."
"I couldn't say . It's not like a mortal trial, not in
this country anyway . The Inquisitor sits as judge -
actually, when the problem's really severe, or we expect
to turn up multiple culprits, several Inquisitors
might go to an area and sit in panel at trial, but usually
it's just the one . The Inquisitor can be the accuser as
well, which already makes things irregular by most
mortal standards."
"Pretty much ."
"Well, sometimes it happens that way because the
Inquisitor discovered the crime in the first place .
Sometimes, though, it's because the real accuser is too
afraid of reprisal to step forward publicly . Ah. . . let's see,
what else? Burden of proof isn't formally put anywhere,
but it certainly tends to fall on the shoulders of the
accused. The accused can have someone to speak for
him if he wants, however that may muddy the waters .
All the Sabbat in the area are invited to attend and can
enter themselves as witnesses for either side, as long as
they're willing to swear on the reliquary ."
"Which is that thing you pointed at Brandenburg
at the ball when you charged him ."
"Exactly."
"So, the witnesses speak; I assume the accuser and
the accused speak .. ."
"And the Inquisitor questions them all . There's no
real set order of things. If people start making trouble,
the templars bounce `em . At any point the accused can
request a trial by ordeal, or by Monomacy, which is
fought either against the Inquisitor or a champion
chosen by the Inquisitor . The Inquisitor doesn't have
to grant the request, though ."
"Then I don't see why they ever would grant it . . . ?"
I knew there were plenty of old-fart Camarilla Cainites
who still believed ordeals could prove something for
real, but it always seemed like utter bullshit to me .
"Oh, there are reasons." He rubbed the three
days' growth of beard I guess he died with . As Voltaire
he'd shaved it off, of course . "Sometimes the Inquisitor
really isn't convinced of the case against the
accused, and decides to put the question to Father
Caine instead . Sometimes when popular opinion
sides with the accused, it's wiser to provide what's
seen as a fighting chance . And- alas! -sometimes
Inquisitors knuckle under to considerations of age or
prestige, not that I blame them . For instance, I
wouldn't have needed the permission of Brandenburg's
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
58
THE IRON RELIQUARY
The Iron Reliquary is a badge of office presented to an Inquisitor upon her appointment . It looks much
like the traditional Sword of Caine symbol, but is modified into something more like a real sword's
proportions, so that it can be held and brandished like one . It is forged of blackest iron, generally by an elder
Tzimisce priest . Small, precious items of Noddist interest - anything from the fangs of famous Sabbat
martyrs to "fragments of the Black Basalt Throne" - are embedded into the hilt, thus the name . Faithful
Sabbat regard the Iron Reliquary as a "holy" object, imbued with the collective spirit of the struggling Cainite
race .
The Iron Reliquary has several practical and ritual uses :
•
Identification : The badge of office positively identifies an Inquisitor . The Inquisition takes a dim view
of anyone who steals or fakes an Iron Reliquary, particularly to impersonate one of their own .
• The accusatio : When charges are formally leveled against a miscreant, the Reliquary is brandished
at him like a sword . The recitation generally ends with a prayer for Caine to bend ear and lend his strength
and wisdom in proving the charge .
• Oaths: An oath on the Iron Reliquary is sacred; to break it invites the malediction of Caine himself.
Witnesses in an Inquisitorial trial are required to swear on it if they wish to speak . An oath on the reliquary
is also sometimes used as security for other formal promises between Sabbat, such as declarations of alliance
between neighboring archbishops, for instance . To be binding, the reliquary must taste the blood of the oathtaker
(from a small cut, usually on the palm of the hand) .
• Ordeals: The accused in an Inquisitorial trial cannot simply swear to innocence on the reliquary. He
can, however, request an ordeal on the reliquary to settle the question . The Inquisitor may choose whether
or not to grant the request (a prerogative some contest the honesty of) . If she grants a trial by ordeal, she
also has the right to choose its form . Common forms of the ordeal involve heating the "blade" portion of
the reliquary until it glows red, then requiring the accused to grasp it for a count of 13 without entering
Rotschreck; suspending the reliquary above the accused's neck or heart by a few hairs from the accuser's
head; and bodily retrieving the reliquary from a pit occupied by some sort of threat (Arms of Ahriman just
don't cut it for this kind of thing) . Needless to say, the Inquisitor can fudge the ordeal one way or the other,
altering the conditions or doctoring the components and so on, if she wants to see a certain result . Whatever
the result, though, the ordeal is considered to show the will of Caine . Unless a skeptic can produce very good
proof that someone cheated, it's far better to be silent about any doubts that arise .
In a chronicle that takes its Noddism very seriously, the Storyteller may at her option grant all or some
Iron Reliquaries the equivalent of a True Faith rating, which is effective against infernalist or "heretic"
vampires, Lilins, those in blood-thrall to regnants who serve the Antediluvians, and other such "traitors
to Caine." (Note that simply being a Camarilla vampire does not count as a "traitor to Caine," whatever
most Sabbat may think on the subject . An element of conscious or deep-seated subjection to the
Antediluvians, Lilith, or demonic powers must exist . A member of the Servitors of Irad Gehenna cult,
for example, would count .)
fellow bishops to prosecute him there in his own city,
but they certainly could have made it hell on earth for
me to try - and they might well have forced me to
grant him an ordeal in the end ."
"So what would you have done then?" I shifted on
the barstool . "What do you do if you have somebody
you know is guilty, and they ask for an ordeal or a duel,
and for some reason you have to let `em have it, but
you're afraid they'll win?"
"Brandenburg wouldn't have . But to answer your
question - in such a case, I wait to grant the request
until I've set out all the facts of my case, and hope that
the sensible folk in the area will take matters into their
own hands after I lose and leave ." Empty glass number
three tumbled to the sill beside him .
CHAPTER Two : CA CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
59
If it was me, I might just decide to do a little fixing
on the contest instead, but then my respect for doing
things by the book was at an all-time low .
"Have you ever had to fight a duel with someone
far more powerful than you?" I asked .
"More powerful? A few times. Far more powerful?
No. I've never seen the point in getting anyone killed for
no conceivable benefit, particularly myself . But that's
when it becomes very important for an Inquisitor to
have high-ranking supporters, those who can provide
appropriate champions when needed . Frequently," he
grinned at me, "such champions are templars ."
"Ah-hah. And if things don't go to an ordeal or
duel or whatever. . ."
"Then I decide based on the facts as presented and
pronounce sentence ."
"Which is always burning?"
"Which is burning, yes. I have some latitude for
granting leniency, but even then the sentence of burning
still stands ; and if for whatever reason the accused
falls afoul of us again, the full penalty is reinstated ."
"Now by leniency, you mean..." I prompted .
"The Wild Hunt, for example, which carries a slim
chance of survival - base, cowardly, pointless survival,
but survival . Or I can set a task which earns the
convict a ritus of Contrition ."
"Oh, I get how that would kill a lotta birds with
one stone ."
"Rest assured I don't bring people to trial frivolously
just so I can impose a task on them, Nadia ..." He
waved a cynical hand . "But I've learned not to promise
anything to my brothers and sisters ."
"Are you allowed to torture people, like the real
Inquisition used to do?"
He looked tickled at that . "The `real' Inquisition!
That's good! You talk as if there's some leather-bound
codex sitting on a bookshelf at the regent's haven
saying what I can and can't do . Some Inquisitors use
torture, sure . But the ones who survive to celebrate
their victories think very carefully before they settle on
who to torture and how, since there's nothing stopping
anyone from taking revenge ."
"Except the Code of Milan ." I was real proud of how
I'd wangled a copy of that code out of Bishop Drew .
"No, look down in the addenda. They can claim
the Inquisitor abused authority, and all is kosher ."
"Yeah, but only if a quorum of prisci approve," I
fired back .
"Do you think a quorum of prisci are going to stand
up for an Inquisitor who's already gone home to glory,
unless there's some compelling reason to do so?" He
looked astounded .
"I'd think just the bad precedent would be pretty
damn compelling ."
"Huh ." He picked up his glass again and
swabbed his middle finger around the bottom of it
to pick up the last little bit . "If there's one thing
most Sabbat don't give a fuck about, my dear, that
would be precedent ."
INQUISITORIAL TEMPLARS
"I'm starting to get the idea ."
"Good . I worry about you getting confused on that
score . Sometimes I get confused . I suspect that in many
ways our modern Sabbat resembles the Camarilla more
than it should, and more than it cares to admit,
definitely . I know many young Camarilla flout the
bastardized Traditions handed down to them . Meanwhile,
many elders among us thought rebellion a fine
thing when they were doing the rebelling ."
He shook his head . "Still, there are real differences,
differences you can't afford to dismiss . Among
us, hierarchy is the necessary result of personal striving,
not an end to be served in itself . Revolution is not
a doom to be avoided at all costs but a purgative to be
prescribed as needed . And apart from what Caine
himself handed down - a matter still under some
debate - no law of ours is eternal ."
"Yeah, okay. I'm working on this . I really am . If it
hadn't sounded good I wouldn't have joined ."
"Of course not ."
"Uh, back to the Inquisition ."
"Yes?" he said mildly.
"Your templars ."
"Right. Our templars do many of the same things
other templars do . They travel with us, act as companions-
in-arms and packmates-"
"They're bouncers at trials -"
"Bailiffs, yes, and they go out among the pack
priests as missionaries, like I said before . A very few
spend most of their time chasing the lore and artifacts
of our ancient history, bringing it back for their patrons
to catalog and study . But I'd say their main duty is to
help investigate infernalists and heretics ."
"Aboveboard or undercover?"
ANATOMY OF A WITCH-HUNT
What follows is a short discussion of some of the archetypal features of a witch-hunt . Note that most
Sabbat Inquisitors aren't demagogues, and relatively few of their prosecutions blossom into full-blown witchhunts.
This information is intended for stories where things are truly meant to get out of hand ; incidentally,
it can just as easily apply to stories set among the Camarilla (or even the independents, though the
independents don't really have anything like an in-house Inquisition in place) .
Ever-Widening Scope .
Terminology often provides the first foothold for a witch-hunt. In real-world history, the mortal
Inquisition had little power to prosecute witchcraft until the Malleus Maleficarum convinced the Pope to
formally expand the definition of "heresy" to include it . During Joseph McCarthy's twentieth-century
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
60
reign of terror, "un-American" was the exceedingly flexible word that started out referring to Communists
and Soviet collaborators and ended up including homosexuals and Hollywood personalities who
dabbled in socialist activism .
"Heresy" is no less conveniently broad for the Sabbat Inquisition . After all, it seems futile to worry only
about those enslaved to demons when, in fact, it's just as dangerous to the sect to harbor the stooges of
Antediluvians, or the Inconnu, or the Setites-to say nothing of Camarilla spies and those unnumbered
silent weaklings who lie awake days considering a defection to the Camarilla .
Collaboration
A recurring feature of any witch-hunt is that once it's started, most folk go along with it no matter how
ridiculous and voracious it becomes . Why do people collaborate in their own oppression? The solution to
the paradox lies in the fact that there are actually two oppressors, not one : the witch-hunter himself, and
a vague but plausible threat to the social order . The people must choose their poison, and they have
historically opted for the former. In other words, they accept the Inquisitor because they have been taught
to fear heresy more .
Furthermore, as chaos compounds and accusations mount, all the resulting fear is again redirected to
the chosen scapegoat . In such a climate, it becomes ominously easy to turn citizen against citizen, to make
of the populace one vast spy network that learns to do most of the witch-hunter's work for him . They bring
him captured "criminals" and beg him to dispense justice . What can he do but gravely oblige them?
Demagoguery
A witch-hunter is, above all, a demagogue . Personal power, however great, can start to seem a lackluster
thing once you get used to the rush of converting a mass of apathetic listeners into bloodthirsty fanatics
happy to tear their own to pieces on your say-so . Add to this that an Inquisitor's personal staff may not always
be sufficient to capture and subdue an accused heretic -sometimes the blessings of the local populace are
not only desirable but indispensable .
Thus, whatever persona such an Inquisitor adopts, it will be with the deliberate purpose of wooing the
crowd. Some maintain a quiet, scholarly air, shaking their heads in seemingly genuine regret as they consign
their victims to death . Others are ranting muckrakers . Some, capitalizing on the hysteria of the Final
Nights, adopt mystical, apocalyptic pretensions and refer to themselves as prophets . Needless to say, this
makes other prophets their first targets for persecution . . . .
The God Complex
Given the fear and respect most Inquisitors receive from inferiors, peers, and even superiors, it becomes
understandably difficult not to succumb to delusions of infallibility and invincibility . Judgments are quite
often carried out without a murmur -perhaps the people obey out of devotion, perhaps out of fear . It all
looks the same from up on high .
This is a recipe for moral disaster . No matter what atrocities an Inquisitor may sink to, a justification
can be found . Eventually, the order of decision-making is reversed : The action comes first, and the
reasoning second. It's a much easier way to do things, once you know you're always right .
Onward to Hegemony
It's disheartening to realize just how little stands in a witch-hunter's way once he's truly gained
some sway . Armed with the "will of the people," he has amazing political resilience . And once his
jurisdiction grows to encompass his own superiors, even they have no choice but to follow him .
Archbishops and cardinals who could step in to contest a verdict too often refrain for fear of looking
"soft on heresy," so to speak ; they do so only when the victim is someone they have an interest in
protecting, the case looks weak or politically motivated, and the majority of Sabbat in the area seem
unenthused about the proceedings .
Storytellers planning a story or series of stories centering around a witch-hunt would do well to read
up on the great witch-hunts of mortal history . The mortal Inquisition and the Salem witch trials are
preeminent examples of institutionalized, organized witch-hunting, but the McCarthy era is an excellent
modern adaptation (and only one among many) . The rhetoric of famous rabble-rousers betrays again and
again the same techniques for manipulating popular hysteria . Tonight's witch-hunters have many models
upon which to base their craft .
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
6 1
"Either. It's actually quite easy for Inquisitors or their
templars to go undercover if they want, since they're
usually masked and robed at formal proceedings . Some
agents of the Inquisition have never revealed their real
identities to anyone, not even to their fellows ."
"Creepy," was my verdict .
"Well, it's dangerous work . I've seen and orchestrated
plenty of ruses organized around the convenience
of the disguise . Inquisitors and their templars posing as
each other, taking each others' place at strategic moments
and so on ."
"Do you ever make your templars pretend to be
infernalists?"
"Eh." Navarrese shook himself, or was it a shudder?
"Sad experience taught us to avoid that enterprise .
It's been done, and once or twice it's even succeeded .
But there are demons so poisonous you can't even
hear their names aloud without being compromised .
Waste of a faithful servant . It's more cost-effective
just to find a stupid amoral fledgling who seems
vulnerable to promises of easy power, steer him in
what you think is the right direction and spy on the
results . But that has its own perils, not least to the
Inquisitor's own soul ."
"You know what they say about fighting with monsters ."
"Well, we are the monsters. But that doesn't insulate
us ." He looked rueful . "Not all Sabbat realize that
- maybe that's why infernalism is so hard to root out,
let alone eliminate . We encourage our young to strive
for domination ; we say compete or die ; we tell them
they were made to enjoy such freedom as no other
creatures know . But sometimes we forget to tell them
things are still out there with the power to enslave
them. Sometimes we forget to tell ourselves ."
"Yeah. I guess it's a real bad thing when an Inquisitor
goes bad ."
He just nodded .
IDEOLOGY
AND POLITICS
The guy was off in never-never land . I let my mind
wander too, to the subject of where was I going to
spend the day . The little Victorian waterfront hotel I'd
checked into was pricey, considering its genteel charm
hadn't been treated to a renovation since about 1930 .
I didn't even know if there were other Sabbat in town
or if this was pretty much Port Navarrese . I hoped he
wouldn't offer me haven . Anything I could lie down on
would smell like a Led Zeppelin concert and the whole
place had an overdeveloped sense of mood anyway .
The fucking shadows were on the move again, like
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
62
they were just waiting for him to get distracted so they
could misbehave.
Or like the things he was thinking were getting
them excited .
"Hey. .. Navarrese." I should either say goodnight
or get him back talking, one of the two .
"What?" His head snapped around. It looked a
mite wobbly in motion. Maybe he was more toasted
than I'd figured .
"You were saying. . . about how people take things
you try to teach them the wrong way?"
"Yes." He frowned . "They understand that they've
been freed-freed of the Camarilla, unshackled from
any duty to the kine or to their own `humanity' - a
contradiction in terms anyway, right? What they
don't understand is that they've been freed for a
reason, and that reason isn't just to indulge every
petty-ass lust they've ever entertained. They don't
understand the burden of freedom, Nadia . A slave, as
long as he stays a slave, can do nothing to stop his
master's evil . We don't have that excuse anymore .
But they think they can take the rewards and leave
the responsibility ."
"Well, but is there any way to stop `em from taking
it that way?"
"You can't force anyone to be virtuous . You sure
as hell can't and stay True Sabbat yourself ." He
reached up suddenly and yanked the window the
rest of the way open . Hopefully that'd let the smoke
filter out quicker . "But you can be a better teacher .
I blame myself- I blame the Inquisition, which has
its own litany of shortcomings - but I also blame
the other officials . All of us should be doing more,
walking the walk . `Do as I say, not as I do' is not
going to make the grade ."
"Did it ever?"
He made a so-so gesture .
"It's not so clear cut . It's not as simple as this
official helps the Sabbat, that one hurts it . If it were
that simple I'd be burning somebody every week ."
"That'd be cheery," I commented.
"Maybe not cheery, but productive . Excuse me . I'll
try putting it another way. You have your officials who
want to do the right thing for the right reasons, and
they're capable of doing it. You have the ones who want
to do the right thing for the right reasons, but they're
incompetent. The ones who want to do the right thing for
the wrong reason-how do you handle that? Help them
along because it's for the greater good, even if you know
you're just giving them ammunition for some bullshit
vendetta?" He clenched his fists . "The ones who want to
do the wrong thing for the right reason- do you have any
idea how hard it is to have to cut down somebody who you
T
ANOINTED PANOPLY
A few words about the ceremonial trappings for templars, paladins, and Inquisitors :
• Templars: Templars are, almost without exception, sworn in by the Anointing (described elsewhere
in this chapter) . Beyond that, there are very few uniformities . Some ranking Sabbat provide their templars
with signets, badges, or jewelry (including jewelry for piercings) . The use of actual livery was never very
frequent, and has now virtually died out even in the most pompous contexts . Most high officials give their
templars letters of credence, which include a written description of the templar and contact information for
the official, to use as identification when they must travel away from home . Tzimisce officials with Koldunic
Sorcery may even use a special ritual to enchant a wax seal on the letter so that it can't be broken without
the sorcerer knowing where and when . Other templars employ signs and countersigns, of which neighboring
Sabbat are made aware at the grand regional ritae.
Templars dismissed from duty, either temporarily or permanently, are simply sent on their way with
thanks - unless they have failed so miserably as to warrant an actual deconsecration . This is another ignoblis
ritus in which either the templar or an effigy of the templar is anointed in reverse, this time with mortal urine,
and a mocking formula of repudiation recited . A ranking Sabbat who subjects a templar to this formal
shaming would be wise to expect either a Monomacy challenge or a stake in the back -depending on the
ex-templar's temperament - at some point in the near future .
• Paladins: Paladins (a statistically older group with more feudal-era cultural remnants than the
templars) are given a rich, gilded, ermine-trimmed tabard at the time of their appointment, which many wear
to Table meetings, though this is usually not obligatory (you try forcing a Nosferatu . antitribu to wear the damn
thing) . For a paladin who has worn the tabard faithfully for years to turn up at a Table meeting without it
is a silent but effective way to show disapproval of current policy . Some have even been known to resign in
protest by burning their tabards in the presence of the cardinal . Among older paladins, however, this is
considered a rather churlish gesture unless immediately followed up with a Monomacy challenge .
When a paladin is dishonorably discharged, the tabard is stripped off in a public humiliation
(sometimes followed by a deconsecration, as above, depending on the degree of severity . Omitting the
deconsecration leaves the paladin more free to join another cardinal's retinue, which is surprisingly often
the end result - though few cardinals relish the idea of letting their privy counselors move to another
Table, sometimes it's just not wise to so deeply offend either the paladin or the rival high official she's
probably been cozying up to) . Many young Sabbat are amazed that anybody shows up for this, but among
these ratified circles, a cowardly refusal to come and "take your medicine like a man" only heaps further
opprobrium on the former paladin .
• The Inquisition: As noted elsewhere, Inquisitors and their templars usually wear thick red robes and
red hoods with eye-slits at formal proceedings . Some Inquisitors have been gifted by high-ranking Sabbat
with fine masks to wear instead, usually exquisite works in bone created with skilled use of Vicissitude .
Owning such a mask is a mark of favor and accomplishment . Templars' robes usually differ in ornament or
cut from their Inquisitor's, but no set rules exist for the vestments' construction . Some templars are also given
a miniature "Iron Reliquary" (small enough to wear like a pendant) to carry as a badge, though many prefer
not to keep anything on their persons that might identify them in the event of capture .
Inquisitors' templars generally disappear when their masters become acutely displeased ; the sect-withina-
sect seems loath to let the details of its internal practices become known to the ruck and run of the Sabbat,
and even those templars who quit their work under more amicable conditions will not speak a word about
their former employment, as though still subject to some terrible vow of silence .
know damn well shares your mind on everything but one
crucial point? And the fact that the same person might
fall into any given category at any given moment, and
Caine alone can tell which it is sometimes-"
"Yeah, I think I get it, senor." Time to get off this train .
"The ones who've gotten so fucking cynical they
use our own ideals against us, and even worse, the ones
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
63
who do it because they can't even tell the difference
between their needs and the sect's needs anymore!"
PROPAGANDA
Now here was a subject I could go with . "I've
known Ivory Tower Cainites who were real good at
that too," I exclaimed . "Twisting the truth, making
whatever they wanted seem like the right thing for
everybody. I never figured out how they did that ."
"Well, it's not difficult," grumbled Navarrese .
"Hey, I thought it was . Maybe I'm just stupid . . .
enlighten me ."
"Okay." He got himself back together a bit . "You
take propaganda."
"Okay, propaganda . But that's lies, not truth ."
"Actually, it doesn't matter either way . Because
the first rule of propaganda is that you have to start
with people who are pretty much ignorant about
whatever you're propagandizing . So they're not going
to know the difference anyway . Usually the truth
works just fine, better in fact . For instance, you take a
fact, which is that Camarilla bind their younger members
in blood."
"Me for damn sure . Not all of them, though."
"Right," he agreed . "Not all of them . You and I
know that, but most Sabbat don't, do they? So I take
this fact to my little brothers and sisters in arms, and I
dress it up till they're absolutely convinced that the
instant they run to the Camarilla, they're going to be
slapped in chains of blood ."
"Which they might be, but yeah, okay ."
"Meanwhile, your Camarilla elders are busy dressing
this fact down till it looks like such a pissant little
risk beside all the terrible dangers of running to the
Sabbat, which again, most Camarilla Licks are pretty
damn ignorant about . Nobody has to flat-out lie to do
all this . A fact taken out of context . . .."
"Can mean pretty much whatever you want . Sure ."
"And you just build on it and build on it, and then
maybe you start slipping in things that aren't so true,
but by that point they've totally shut down their
critical faculties and won't even notice ."
"So rule number one for propaganda, pick subjects
people are ignorant about ."
"Right. Make sure you get there first, and if you
possibly can, you also make sure you put in at least a
little truth, a few juicy-yet-credible anecdotes specially
chosen to fit your version of reality . That way,
when they do encounter the enemy, they'll see those
one or two little true things, ignore the rest and leap to
the satisfying conclusion that you were right all along .
To put it bluntly, you never give them the option of an
unbiased look."
I protested, "You talk like this is a bad thing . Don't
we want to keep Sabbat afraid of running to the
Camarilla, even if it takes a little propaganda?"
"Yes and no. On the one hand, hate and fear are
closely linked in the soul, and hate is powerful fuel in
wartime . If you can't arrange for an atrocity of suitable
scale to get people all worked up, demonizing the enemy
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
64
is the next best thing . But if the price of being able to say
whatever you want about the enemy is keeping your
own forces ignorant, that's a problem . Even footsoldiers
fight better when they understand what they're fighting
. And if, Caine forbid, they do realize that you've
been creative with the truth ... well, you could end up
with the same kind of disillusionment that makes nice
little Russian-Orthodox girls kill their archons ."
"That's in wartime ." Did he actually say arrange
for an atrocity?
"In peacetime," he finished, "it keeps people from
running off when they get unhappy, like we said .
Knowing they'll end up even unhappier is only intellectually
comforting . One less Sabbat is one less Sabbat,
and we can't afford to lose people over that kind of shit .
Oh - the other good thing propaganda does do is, it
streamlines the issues . Even Cainites can take only so
much complexity . They don't want to know that most
of the Camarilla they're being pointed at are folks just
like them who happened to get Embraced on the
wrong side of the fence and honestly don't know any
better, but they still have to be killed anyway . That is
not the kind of speech people want to hear as they're
putting on the war paint and staring down the specter
of Final Death . They want to know that they are
marching against the very talons of the Antediluvians."
"And that's what we tell them ."
"When they're in their war paint? Yes . That's what
you tell them . Even the ones who know better will be
grateful to you ."
I nodded. I did understand about war .
"Even infernalists, perverse as it may sound, want
to believe they're on the right side, Nadia . Everyone
wants to think well of himself, on some level or other .
That's what propaganda plays on . `They' are ultimate
`evil .' Therefore, by inversion, we who fight them must
be `good.' Think of a new Lick's moral confusion . Or
maybe you were so sotted with notions of your enduring
humanitas that you never had to deal with this, but
imagine if you were a brand-new Sabbat ."
"Okay, I'm imagining ."
"Now, you know that you're not mortal anymore,
and mortal laws no longer apply to you . But you have
nothing to replace them with yet . That takes time and
instruction . And so many Sabbat get piss-poor instruction
. Their old morality is stripped from them and
nobody gives them a coherent alternative . The idea
that you are now a killer by nature, destined to feed on
the cattle you belonged to just a second ago, can be
hard to stomach when you lack that alternative . How
can you call yourself `good' now?"
"By turning around and finding somebody worse
than me," I guessed .
"Exactly."
MISDIRECTION
"I can relate . I still haven't come across that
coherent alternative, either."
He beamed. A beaming Lasombra is almost as
worrisome as a beaming Tremere . "Well, I'm just so
glad to hear you say that ."
"Figured you would be ."
"Your lack in that department is, by the way, the
reason you're working for Stimson and not for me ."
This was news.
"But that doesn't mean it shouldn't get fixed
anyway," he went on . "Stimson knows her catechism .
She'll teach you well and I'll pick up wherever she
leaves off."
"I'm game . I don't even care how weird it is at this
point . It's not like anything else has worked ."
"Good . And I'll do my best to make things coherent
for you, seeing as that's my whole purpose in
existence and all ."
"Good, because some of what I've gotten so far
about being Sabbat doesn't exactly gel . Not from you,
I mean from other Sabbat ." I tried to think of some of
the gems. "You know ... Sabbat stick together, but you
can't trust anybody but your own pack . We don't let
the elders run us, but our cardinal's six centuries old .
We'll die before we betray our principles, but we'll also
do whatever we have to do to take what's ours ."
"Right . And some officials find that confusion
useful . When totally opposite things are true
at the same time, you can justify damn near any
position. If your bishop screws over some other
bishop, that's healthy competition in action, all
to the good of the sect . But if the opposite happens,
hey, aren't Sabbat supposed to stick together
no matter what? No fair!" He barked a laugh .
"They'll have you look at the big picture if they
think they'll look better from a distance ; if the
devil they want is in the details, that's the first
place they'll direct your attention ."
"So the trick is to look at the hand the magician's
not waving ."
"Usually. You're not obligated to pass on that tip,
of course ."
IDEOLOGUES
"So, what else?"
"Let's see ." He scratched at the beard again. "You
also want to watch out for the folks to whom everything
is potential grounds for an ideological pissing
match. Not all Sabbat can legitimately brag about
their bravery or their accomplishments or their cunning,
after all . For some, the only thing they're really
CHAPTER Two : CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
65
.
good at is looking unholier-than-thou . Where this gets
really annoying is the point at which all common sense
goes bzzzzzt! For instance, there you are patiently
taking care of something for Stimson, some mortal
mess in Nogales, and Mr . True Sabbat who's supposed
to be helping you comes along and rips the scalp off of
the police chiefs daughter just to show how delightfully
liberated he is . Trying to explain to him that he
is off the fucking point is like trying to get the French to
take a damn bath."
"Oh, that does sound like fun ."
"And believe me, the malady has subtler but no
less counterproductive forms in upper management .
Ancient prophecy is the worst . I think the regent
should give up letting the prisci debate what the sect
is going to do about the latest omens and just call for
an elimination tournament . Last one left standing
knows what Saulot really meant . Half of `em think
they're Noddists, even the ones who've never so much
as set foot in the Inquisition's lending library ."
". ..What who really meant?"
"Never mind. What you have to understand about
these people when you lock horns with them - and
lock horns you will -is that for them, the issue is not
the issue . We all latch onto the Sermons of Caine, the
lore of the First City, Second City, and so forth . It's a
wonderful thing to discover you do have roots after all,
and believe me, I'd never begrudge anyone that joy . I
want all Sabbat to understand their heritage and their
destiny . But for these vees, the only destiny they see is
to spend the rest of their existences treating everything
that happens to them as a test to prove how much more
orthodox they are than everybody else . That way
madness lies . Sabbat should not be fighting and killing
each other over these things ."
"Right. Because that's what the Inquisition is for ."
"Well, it is," he shot back jovially .
Far be it from me to argue .
SABBAT STRUCTURE
(OR LACK THEREOF
"A few last things I should warn you about, because
as ex-Camarilla you may get blindsided ." He got
up to dump out his ashtray and actually had to put out
a hand to steady himself. How could he keep on talking
like that when he was blotto? The brain was supposed
to go before the legs . If this was a drunk act put on for
my benefit, he was working pretty damn hard at it .
"Okay. Sure . Shoot."
"There's a lot more organization to the Sabbat
than you may realize right away ."
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
66
"Well, hell . It looks to me like you've got a queen,
you've got princes and barons and knights and peasants ."
"Yes. There's that, which is already more than
most Camarilla know . But our hierarchy's much more
fluid. More like a wolf pack, where any wolf can fight
for alpha status at any time."
"Granted."
"There are a lot of your old sect, a lot of the elders
even, who wonder why we don't just collapse into total
chaos ." He washed up at the bar like driftwood, flopping
his elbows down onto the counter . I slid a stool under his
ass. He hooked a leg around it for extra insurance .
"This is true ."
"Part of it's because of our faith in our purpose, as
I've explained ..."
"Right. Go on ."
"Part of it's because certain people who have a lot
to fear from real meritocracy have put other mechanisms
in place . What's the saying? Age and treachery
will conquer youth and skill?"
"How remarkably modern of you ."
"There's truth to it," he went on morosely . "There's
the black market trade in Vaulderies, for instance ."
VINCULI
I jumped on it . This was the kind of bad news I'd
been waiting on all night . "What do you mean, black
market trade?"
"Well, because the Vaulderie does affect people's
feelings, which in turn influences their actions . Now,
any Sabbat's strongest ties will usually be to his pack just
on account of sheer repetition, but there are plenty of
occasions where you're socially obliged to share the cup
with whoever's there ... like you were at the Palla Grande."
"Right. So?"
"So, it's to the advantage of certain ranking Sabbat
that you share the cup with this person and not that
person. So sometimes the occasion is deliberately
arranged."
"Oh, okay . I'm starting to get you . And guess who
controls the guest lists ."
"Exactly," he said . "Then elders start trading each
other these kinds of favors, and eventually you get this
little economy going . And sometimes it's not even that
they want you to ally with the people you're sharing the
cup with. Maybe they're actually trying to fuck up your
alliance with some other person, or they're trying to
make it impossible for you to move on a problem by
setting you up in a conflict of interests- or maybe it's
as simple as they know there's somebody you definitely
don't want to share the cup with, and they make it
happen so that you understand what kind of power they
have over you, and that takes you down a peg ."
Well, that made the Sabbat just like the Camarilla
in yet another area . You always want to be careful what
social invitations you accept .
STAGE DRESSING
"So that's one way the ranking Sabbat keep things
like they want `em."
"Yes . Which-" He put up his hands . "There's no
actual prohibition against . It's just most younger Sabbat
don't realize when they start playing this game that there's
a whole section of the rulebook that nobody's going to
show them. If they did realize it, they'd call it cheating .
When people say meritocracy, the capacity to fuck people
over is not the sort of merit they usually mean ."
"And if I understand right, that's the kind of thing
the Sabbat was built to fight against in the first place .
Maybe your elders get a little scared that somebody's
going to do unto them as they did unto their elders ."
"And that's why they devote a whole lot of effort
to keeping up appearances," he finished . "Fortunately
for them, the appearance of meritocracy is fairly easy to
arrange, with a little forethought . For instance, a
templar I once knew - absolute spitfire of a woman,
one of the best tacticians in New England. A certain
bishop had a different templar for a protege, and this
protege needed a little shine on his reputation . They
were both sent against the Boston Camarilla, supposedly
to work as a team . Well, the bishop leaked a little
useful information to the Camarilla in exchange for
letting the protege kill a few worthless Caitiff the
Bostonian prince could do without anyway . He had a
daring escape and a few more sets of Camarilla fangs to
string on his necklace. My friend, however, got a
napalm bouquet from the local welcome wagon . As far
as the other Sabbat knew, she just slipped . Slowing
down, getting sloppy . May the best man win," he said
wryly . "He's a big muck-a-muck out there now . They
say he may make bishop himself soon."
"Can't you bring `em to trial?"
"I did . But I couldn't exactly put the Camarilla on
the stand to testify, could I? And unfortunately, far as I
could tell, the little snot didn't even know what his boss
had done for him, so he looked golden . And they already
don't like me in New England, for other reasons . I was
paddling upstream . If I'd burned the bishop they would
have taken it as a personal revenge thing ."
"Shit ."
"It seemed better to let it go this time . But you can
bet I'm watching the fuckers . If I have to catch `em in
the act, that's what I'll do ."
CHAPTERTwo: CAPTAINS OF THE HOLY WAR
67
I nodded.
"Monomacy duels can be fixed too . Damn near
anything can be fixed ."
He buried his fingers in his hair, sending tufts of it
spiking straight up . The man was deflating before my
very eyes - he'd be off the stool in a minute . I jogged
his shoulder . Was I actually touching him?
"Hey."
He looked up at me .
"This happened when?"
"Last week."
Oooohhhhhhh.
"Come on, Navarrese . . .you're baked . Baked couchpotato."
I helped him up.
"Persistence is rewarded," he mumbled .
"That's right . Come on. . ." I dumped him on the
sofa . "Let's lay off trying to save the Sabbat from itself
for at least a few hours, huh?" Shadows were swarming
over me now like ants from a stepped-on anthill . I had
to get out of here . But knowing my luck, he'd pass out,
the sun'd come up and there goes my sweet new job . I
looked around for a minute and found he had a big
piece of sheet metal to nail over the window each dawn
and pry off each dusk . The other two rooms had covers
for their windows too . The guy on the bed was long
gone. I went around and did my little light-proofing
tango, then came back . Navarrese was watching me,
just his eyes moving .
"I'm out of here," I announced . Not one for long
goodbyes or unpaid therapy .
"Of course ." He held out a hand .
"What?"
"Come here a second ." I obeyed . He gestured for
my hand; I let him have it .
"This is what makes you so perfect," he said .
"Excuse me?"
"You have a sense of responsibility ."
Suddenly I felt very dirty. Damn Keepers .
"Perfect for what?" I pressed him . He just clasped
my hand in his and closed his eyes .
So I peeled him off and left . I guess my sense of
responsibility made sure I locked the door .
Now I have a question for you. Between a Lasombra
elder who's smart, ruthless, manipulative, fanatical and
determined to screw you over, and a Lasombra elder
who's smart, ruthless, manipulative, fanatical and convinced
you're wonderful, you tell me which is scarier.
I know how I answer that .

Well, you've read the foregoing chapters (or at
least the one pertaining to the side you've chosen),
which presented a wealth of context and character
possibilities. Now it's time to think about how all these
very special people are put together in terms of mechanics.
Most of this chapter is addressed to players,
but the concepts generally apply just as well to creating
Storyteller characters .
ROWER One of the first issues to consider is that of power
(always a favorite subject among vampires and their
players) . How powerful should the character you're
creating be? You can best answer this question by
determining as much as possible about the character's
role in the story . For instance, if an archon character
must serve as antagonist for an entire coterie, it might
be wise to "pump her up" a bit so that she can provide
a more satisfying challenge .
Further, if she's to be the main antagonist for the
next ten stories, she'll probably require a different skill
Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to
test a man's character, give him power.
- Abraham Lincoln
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
69
set from that of a character who is simply meant to get
in the way now and then . If she has an extensive
network of contacts and patrons to call upon, she need
not be as formidable as a lone-wolf archon-or, at least,
not as physically formidable . And so on and so forth .
Similar considerations apply to players' characters
. In general, it's not good player politics to have one
character in a coterie vastly out-power the others
unless that's what everyone has specifically agreed to
beforehand - see below under "Coteries/Packs ." If all
the characters in a coterie start out more capable than
most, then the Storyteller must step up their challenges
and opponents accordingly. Storytellers and
players interested in such a chronicle would be well
advised to read the sections on elders and elder
chronicles in the Guide to the Camarilla and Vampire
Storytellers Handbook - the advice there can also
apply to ancilla chronicles .
However, while bringing sect-official characters
into the players' coterie may suggest a higher-powered
chronicle, it doesn't necessarily require one . True,
such a coterie will probably encounter high-powered
t
Storyteller characters unusually early and often, and
they might wish to prepare for that eventuality (not
that being thrown into water way beyond your depth
isn't a fine, wicked, time-honored premise for a story as
well) . But there's no formal hiring standard for archons
or templars-the word of a justicar, bishop, or similar
high official is the sole prerequisite . A young ancilla or
neonate might be appointed to the post for any of a
number of reasons : a specialized skill, particularly one
specific to the modern era ; the desire for an expendable
catspaw; deep personal trust, whether earned or granted
by virtue of blood relation ; the need for an agent who
can blend in with the vampiric hoi polloi . Whatever the
reason, the Storyteller and player both need to understand
it and agree on it, since it will undoubtedly be the
hook upon which many a rewarding plot is hung .
On the other hand, the majority of sect officials are
formidable folk, chosen precisely because they're exceptional
. There are several ways to up the power level of a
starting character. For an elder or ancilla game, simply
giving characters the Age Background may be enough .
(In fact, even neonate characters can be given the
equivalent of a dot in Age, trading extra freebies for a
Humanity hit which then might or might not be bought
back. Just call it something else, like "Competency ." Or,
don't even bother-simply give all of the players a few
extra freebies to allocate as they see fit and call it even .)
Other possibilities include using the Storyteller
character generation guidelines or even the "downtime"
maturation system, both from the Vampire
Storytellers Handbook . However, some may prefer to
use a character creation system designed especially for
archon and templar characters . With that in mind,
what follows is a point spread meant for those chosen
to face dangers and obstacles far beyond the ken of the
"average" Camarilla or Sabbat member .
ATTRIBUTES
Characters receive the usual complement of Attributes
(7 dots for primary, 5 for secondary, 3 for
tertiary), plus two additional dots to allocate as they
wish. Generational maximums for Traits still apply (so
unless you're of the Seventh Generation or lower, you
may not possess more than five dots in a Trait) .
ABILITIES
Characters receive the usual complement of Abilities
(13 for primary, 9 for secondary, 5 for tertiary), plus
three additional dots to allocate as they wish . The
three-dot maximum in Abilities for starting characters
at this stage is waived . Remember, however, that a
five-dot Ability is meant to represent truly world-class
skill ; if your character is world-class at something,
that's backstory that needs serious explaining .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
70
DISCIPLINES
Characters receive five dots in Disciplines -
they'll need `em . Four of the dots must be put into clan
Disciplines ; the fifth may be out-of-clan if desired . All
five dots may be put into a single Discipline if you wish,
but very few archons and templars, young or old, can
afford to be so narrow in their focus .
BACKGROUNDS
Camarilla characters receive eight dots in Backgrounds
; Sabbat characters receive five . This is to reflect
the fact that archons and templars must often maintain
a certain level of contact, influence, and investment in
the world around them simply to perform their duties
adequately . It also gives a little extra room for the
purchase of Age and Generation Background dots (since
so many archons are ancillae or elders) .
VIRTUES
Camarilla characters receive seven dots to distribute
among their Virtues ; Sabbat characters receive six .
While the Sabbat's relative fondness for mayhem and
depravity does not exactly exalt virtue, Sabbat officials
are generally made of sterner stuff than the average
vato . The usual restrictions apply if you choose a Path
of Enlightenment for your character instead of a Humanity
Trait. That is, the Conviction and Instinct
Virtues do not come with a free starting dot, and the
character that takes either or both must buy them up
to at least 1 . Starting characters with a Path of Enlightenment
must take at least five dots in Willpower and
they begin play with a Path rating no higher than 5
(even if Conscience/Conviction + Self-Control/Instinct
totals more than 5) . If your character is an
ancilla or elder with a long history of following his Path
(in which case you will also need to buy the Age
Background and fill in the relevant backstory), your
Storyteller may at her option permit you to spend
freebies to buy your Path rating higher than 5 .
LAST TOUCHES
Everything else proceeds per the normal rules for
starting characters . Starting Willpower equals the
character's Courage rating . Starting Humanity or Path
rating equals Conscience/Conviction + Self-Control/
Instinct (to a maximum of 5 for Path followers, as
above) . Starting blood pool may be rolled or chosen,
per the Storyteller's direction . If your character has a
noteworthy Herd rating and begins the chronicle in
her home city, for instance, there's no real reason for
her to start the game with a 2 blood pool unless that
makes for a dramatic opening . Roll a die for, or choose,
Vinculum ratings for Sabbat characters - see "On
Blood," below, for further consideration of starting
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
71
Vinculum scores . Assign Merits and Flaws if you and
the Storyteller so desire (bearing in mind that a net
deficit can be paid for later with your freebies.) Finally,
you receive 18 freebie points to round out your character
as you see fit, in addition to any freebie points
gained by Flaws or the Age Background .
USING THE NUMBERS
While it's all well and good to transfuse extra points
into an archon or templar character, even that won't
necessarily fit him for the battles ahead . Traits are
nothing more than an approximation of a character's
strengths and weaknesses . The key word here is approximation:
Anyone who's ever created a Vampire character
knows that there are never enough points to describe all
the qualities of a person that might someday prove
relevant in a story situation . You can gradually fill out
the bare spots later, with experience points, but the task
at the time of character creation is to establish at least
the skeleton and the basic shape of the meat on it . After
all, most good Storytellers will look closely at proposed
characters' capabilities before settling on a final direction
for upcoming stories . Where a player puts his points
is a good indication of the kinds of plotlines he expects
to participate in, as well as his vision of his character's
role in the coterie and the chronicle .
CONCEPT
Nature and Demeanor tell a lot about your concept
of your character. They encapsulate her attitude toward
unlife in general . But if your character is also an archon,
templar, or Inquisitor, it's almost as vital to define her
concept of herself as an official. Below are some sample
concepts for various sorts of official, broken down by
category (archon/alastor, templar/paladin, Inquisitor)
in order to better reflect the general way of things in
either sect . Feel free to mix and match, or to steal part
or all of a concept from the "wrong" list .
Bear in mind that these concepts will also affect,
and be affected by, your character's overall ethics or
lack thereof (Humanity or Path of Enlightenment) .
ARCHONS/ALASTORS
• The White Knight : You see the Camarilla as a
society founded upon the highest principles of chivalry
- honor among equals, obedience to superiors, benevolence
to obedient inferiors, strict maintenance of
the Caine-given social order, acceptance of the responsibilities
attendant upon power, and above all,
courage in fighting for one's ideals . You may or may not
truly realize how short of those ideals your fellowknights
often fall . . . .
•
The Wounded Knight : You once were, or wish
you could be, a White Knight, but you've seen too
much. Perhaps you've been disillusioned by others ;
perhaps you've sinned in your own estimation . Now
you're simply going through the motions . The embers
of idealism still smolder in you, producing an outer
smog of cynicism or ennui - but pity your enemies
should someone ever to manage to fan those embers
ablaze again .
• The Illuminatus: You've always longed to be
"on the inside," and now you finally have your wish .
You honestly feel that most Cainites can't even begin
to understand their own best interests ; rather, it's your
and your superiors' heavy duty to make the tough
choices about which people and ideas must be sacrificed
for the greater good . You accept the hatred of the
ignorant as the price of stability .
• The Angler : To you, this post is a sweet deal,
the latest in a long series of smooth operations . As
long as you keep your boss happy and tout the party
line in public, you can do, say, or get anything you
damn well like . Sect, schmect ; it's probably the same
story on the other side of the fence too. All that ever
changes are the names of the victims and the victors,
and the sooner you realize that, the better for your
blood pressure - so to speak . You have a dangerous
habit of using blackmail and extortion to get things
done. Perhaps you even owe your current position to
those techniques.
• The Steady Rock : Let the politicians snipe at
each other, forever wrangling for the high ground .
After all these years, you know your job and you're bydamn
going to do it . You make a point of spending
more time in the field than in trying futilely to outplay
your superiors at the game they mastered long ago .
You're not here for their sakes ; ultimately, you exist to
protect those without the personal power to protect
themselves . Not that they always appreciate what you
do for them, but you knew it was a tough assignment
when you took it.
• The Malcontent : Screw it. You've done your
best for decades in this thankless fucking job - because
you knew it needed to be done . You don't expect
any real appreciation from the civilians, of course . They
hate and fear you, and that's how they must feel if you
want to be effective (and the choices are be effective
or be ash) . But is it too much to ask that your precious
justicar, or the prince whose ass you've just saved, or
someone at least send you a thank-you note occasionally,
instead of just hanging a new millstone around
your neck and sending you on your way? You keep
playing along for now ; but if they aren't careful, the
next Sabbat who approaches you with a sweet severance
package may get a warmer welcome than usual ... .
•
The Pit Bull : Nobody really understands your
justicar the way you do. Some call her a monster .
That's because they only pay attention to her when she
has to punish them . Violence is all some people understand
. Fortunately, she has you to save her some of the
bloody drudge-work of maintaining order. She points
you at a target, you hunt it down and make the most
efficient kill possible . It's not for you to question her
purposes. You already know all about her that you need
to know-she serves the mighty Inner Circle, and you
serve her . This concept is particularly appropriate for
blood-bound archons .
• The Prodigy: You never asked for this . If you'd
known your fame had reached such rarefied circles,
you would've booked the next cargo flight to
Uzbekistan . Unfortunately, you simply happen to be
very, very, very good at something a justicar finds
useful, whether it's high-tech surveillance, spin control,
or deciphering ancient languages . You were called
to serve Inner Circle and sect, and it's an honor you
didn't feel you had much choice in accepting . Now you
just keep your head down unless the justicar or your
coterie tells you it's safe to do otherwise . Granted, most
of what you're doing is the work you like best anyway ;
but sometimes you worry . What happens if you fail?
Worse, what happens if someone comes along who
makes you look like a mediocrity?
• The Protege : You're just along for the ride . You
were appointed (or strongly recommended) to this
post by a sire or a mentor . Perhaps you were reluctant
to accept; perhaps the justicar was reluctant to appoint
you, but succumbed to your pleading, bargaining or
blackmail . People- the Kindred in general, the other
justicars, but above all your fellow archons - largely
view you as a joke and your post as a sinecure . This is
especially burdensome if you're actually planning to do
your job . At least you can count on the justicar to stand
by his decision long after he's lost the desire to stand by
you personally . . . or you hope so, anyway .
TEMPLARS/PALADINS
• The Hand of Vengeance : Damn them. Damn
them all . You could abide the Camarilla as opponents if
they at least fought like the demigods Caine meant
Cainites to be, instead of scuttling mortal cowards . So
many valiant Cainites whose Vaulderie you once shared
have perished from the Camarilla's treachery-and, all
too often, from failures of courage among those who
should shame to call themselves Sabbat . Well, now you
wield the sword of a great official, and you're going to
have blood for blood at long last. Let all who refuse to
join you go and hide, if they don't want to find their own
heads rolling alongside those of the craven "Kindred ."
• The True Sabbat: How is it that so many can hear
the Sermons of Caine year after year and still fail to absorb
their wisdom? Why are so few Sabbat truly preparing for
Gehenna? Why do they persist in imitating the juicebags
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
73
they supposedly despise? Perhaps you think there's still
hope of educating your sectmates before it's too late .
Maybe you've resigned yourself to being the lonely champion
of orthodoxy. In any case, you strive to become the
unliving embodiment of all that the Sabbat believes it
should be .
• The Enforcer: You learned your sect's dirty
little secret long ago and to tell the truth, part of you
was relieved . For all their yawping about freedom and
equality, the Sabbat just couldn't survive if they didn't
occasionally bash in the skulls of dissidents and losers .
Whether you actually perform said skull-bashing yourself
or simply direct it, you accept that you are now
forever part of the dirty little secret. You do your best
to keep it, working quietly and efficiently behind the
scenes while your patron panders to the masses .
• The Dark Knight : Once upon a time, the Sabbat
was more dream than reality . Sometimes you think you
would have preferred it to stay that way . You see the
mindless violence and debauchery of modern nights as
a horrible perversion of the sect's first purpose - which
was, you thought, to find a way of unlife fettered neither
by Antediluvian agendas nor mortal limitations . On
some night so long ago it too seems a dream, you swore
to serve the Sabbat faithfully forever, and it's an oath
you keep no matter how often your experiences with ally
and enemy alike call it into question . So far, it still beats
defecting to the Camarilla ... .
• The Fossil : All you ever wanted was a Cainite
lord's ancient prerogative -the right to run your own
domain without some ridiculous council that's appointed
itself sole guardian of the Traditions telling
you what to do . Unfortunately, in rebelling against the
Camarilla, you were forced to choose the Sabbat,
which also - surprise! - thinks it can tell you what
to do . Fortunately, you're old and powerful enough to
get around them most of the time . You use the Sabbat
hierarchy purely to advance your own agenda . Regardless
of whether you're an actual elder or not, your
outlook more closely matches that of a Dark Ages
prince than anything resembling either sect's modern
ideology. (This is an especially good concept for older
Lasombra and Tzimisce, since few of them had much
choice about rejecting the Camarilla .)
• The Aging Anarch : Your initial attraction to
the Sabbat lay less in its apocalyptic mumbo-jumbo
than in its promise of an undead society that truly
rewards merit rather than mere age . You yourself were
young, lean and hungry at the time and had a vested
interest in the idea . Now that you've gained power
within the sect, perhaps you've toned down your
radicalism (or perhaps you haven't), but you still pride
yourself on your sympathy with the little guys out in
the trenches, all the Joe and Jane Shovelheads who
take the bloody brunt of their elders' policies . Whether
they return that regard, however, is another matter .
• The General: You are a linchpin in the Sabbat's
war machine. Or at least you are when you have your
way. Sometimes you're forced to play politics on your
patron's behalf because he can't trust anyone else to do
it. Sometimes you have to parley with the enemy ;
sometimes your bishop even uses you as a big saber to
rattle at someone, then sheathes you again, all without
informing you that was the plan all along . You put up
with it only for the sake of those eagerly-awaited nights
where it's just you and the War Parties with a Camarilla
city ripe for the taking on the horizon . You're a patriot
by definition, and yet sometimes you think you'd be
just as happy doing this job for the Camarilla - but
you'd never be so foolish as to mention that idle
thought to anyone .
INQUISITORS
• The Fanatic : Even as a mortal you prided yourself
on being rightly guided . Perhaps you were once some
sort of clergy, perhaps not . The point is, once you've
been converted to a point of view, once you've satisfied
your own highly critical mind that the philosophy is true
and perfect, you make it your quest to ensure that
everyone else sees the light also . To you, ideology is not
simply the tool of politics : just the opposite. Ideas are the
seat of the soul ; ideas are also inevitably expressed as
actions . Therefore, a society that would be perfect must
make its ideas perfect . When not pursuing heretics, you
spend your nights exploring the vast breadth and depth
of Noddist scholarship .
• Torquemada: You know they're out there -
you can smell them. Vampires who walk, talk, feed, and
jump fire like real Sabbat, but are actually traitors,
Camarilla spies, humanists, demonolaters . They'll rot
the entire sect from within, given half a chance . It's
beyond the faculties of ordinary Cainites to detect
these hypocrites, which is why you've been entrusted
with your sacred task to ferret them out . You calmly
wield the weapons of terror, charisma, and yes, even
deception in the course of your duties - sometimes it
takes deviltry to beat the devil . If the Sabbat must fall,
let it fall in glorious battle against the Antediluvians
and their stooges . You're not a warrior, but you can at
least try to ensure that when that battle comes, the
Sabbat is still pure in heart .
• The Demagogue: Even the Vaulderie isn't as
sweet to you as the rush of mingled hate, love and fear
that issues from the crowd as you settle your red-robed
frame into the chair of judgment . You may honestly
believe that you do this for the good of Sabbat souls
everywhere . Perhaps you know yourself better than
that . But consciously or not, you thrive on the ability
to sway the masses to your point of view . Convincing
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
74
them despite themselves that a heretic is guilty gives
you great pleasure ; an even greater pleasure lies in
convincing them that a heretic is guilty despite the
absence of evidence . You may have a tendency to
exceed your own reach, a hunger to topple more and
more powerful opponents - the same Cainites who
can actually mount a serious defense against you .
• The McCarthy : If the infernalists hadn't come
along, you would've had to invent them . You never did
do very well at the sort of politics that consists of move
and countermove, your pawn takes my bishop, all that
sub rosa crap. However, you possess a real talent for
capturing or creating the moral high ground, so the
Inquisition seemed like the perfect venue for your
ambitions . Sometimes your act is so good, you almost
manage to convince yourself; but in the end you're a
politician, and you know it . Perhaps you play this game
only to survive in a notably brutal society - what
better way to protect yourself from witch-hunts than
becoming a witch-hunter (a la Roy Cohn), particularly
if you're the sort all too likely to fall under
suspicion otherwise? Or perhaps you play it in pursuit
of some even more ambitious goal .
ATTRIBUTES AND ABILITIES
Vampire character creation rules rank the three
Attribute categories (Physical, Social, Mental) as primary,
secondary, and tertiary for any given character .
This tends to produce folk whose general forte is rather
granular : bruisers, geniuses, politicos . As other creation
points are spent, that basic proclivity can be
emphasized or evened out - low Attributes can be
raised with freebies or simply shored up with dots in
relevant Abilities . High Attributes can be pushed to
human (or inhuman) maximums and paired with
Abilities that allow them to shine even brighter .
There are tradeoffs to taking either tack.
Many of the most famous, most senior sect officials
do indeed approach the Renaissance-man ideal . Such
people seem equally at home pontificating in council,
spearheading an investigation, or wading into the thick
of battle. Their enemies fret endlessly about how to put
them in a position of disadvantage, precisely because
there's no position they haven't survived being put in at
least once . Younger officials often take these paragons as
their models and seek, like them, to excel in every
sphere . Conversely, some sect elders select only
multitalented recruits for official posts, on the assumption
that they have a better chance of survival .
This belief has its merits . Flaunting one's versatility
is a highly effective form of intimidation, sufficient
to discourage some opponents from even trying . Conversely,
hiding it, keeping it in reserve as a hole card,
means that the element of surprise is always at one's
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
75
disposal . However, it would take most vampires centuries
to become a Vykos or a Guil, if, indeed, they ever
reached that capacity . To that end, Guil herself started
unlife as a concubine, Vykos as a bookish boy . Young
characters who try to emulate them can run the risk of
falling victim to the old saw about "jack of all trades,
master of none ." If they're wise, they'll avoid throwing
themselves into too many situations where they must
rely heavily on newer, less comfortable skills . In any
case, most people end up favoring whatever it is they
do the most frequently .
In terms of mechanics, Attributes are expensive
but versatile . A character whose player has pumped
freebie points into evening out her Attributes is a bit
like the mustard seed of the parable . Her relative
dearth of Abilities, Backgrounds, and so forth may
mean she'll start out less effective than other characters,
but as she gains experience, the advantages of her
higher basic Traits will become more obvious . Such a
character, if she becomes an official, will probably be
chosen by a superior who thinks of the very long term
and the very big picture - an Inquisitor who grooms
his successors to carry his vendettas forward long after
his own Final Death, for example .
One-trick ponies can become archons and templars
as well . There are situations in which nothing less than
the best of the best will do . Again, however, the likely
direction of the story counts for a lot . For example, say
your character is a hacker god with a personality that
goes down like quicklime, appointed by a justicar to
handle all things tech . His boss will call him in when
she needs to break into a Cayman Islands bank account
or put a Trojan horse in somebody's Web server .
Period . In between such assignments, she will gently
encourage him to take up solitary and time-consuming
hobbies . Depending on the nature of the chronicle,
this may or may not be a problem . If your Storyteller
has decided your coterie's chief antagonists are a
Gehenna cult bent on crumbling the Masquerade via
the Internet, all you need to do is lock and load . If he's
planning a delicate political chronicle with emphasis
on elder salons, princely courts and Conclaves, however,
that's a different matter .
That said, a character who makes an awkward fit
need not always derail things . Playing a fish out of
water can be fun, if you're ready to go along with it and
to assist the Storyteller in keeping your character's
"growth opportunities" from destroying lovingly crafted
plotlines . The hacker character mentioned above, for
example, would have to realize his shortcomings and
be willing to work on them - or at least to keep his
mouth shut when his colleagues tell him to .
More attention will be paid to characters in coteries
later in this chapter, but it's worth noting here that
t
character strengths and specializations (or lack thereof)
should complement not only the Storyteller's plans,
but also the strengths and weaknesses of the coterie . If
you and another player turn in characters who both
plainly expect to be the coterie's resident puppetmaster,
or its bodyguard or its font of wisdom, that issue needs
to be straightened out before play starts . Would the
two characters be willing to cooperate in that role, or
should one of them branch out into a different area, or
should one of them be scrapped entirely to prevent any
problem? Consenting players can enjoy intra-coterie
friction up to a point, but even friendly rivalries take up
a disproportionate amount of time and attention when
they get out of hand .
DISCIPLINES
This should go without saying, but it doesn't . In
order to maintain some semblance of overall plausibility,
the bulk of character Disciplines should probably
reflect clan aptitudes, at least initially . Although clan
was never meant to straitjacket a character's Traits or
personality, it is an important facet of her supernatural
proclivities - and there's a particularly strong element
of heredity and tradition in the transmission of
Disciplines . Even vampires who have as close a trust as
the Beast allows often hesitate to teach each other the
hallowed arts of their sires ; your justicar boss may trust
you enough to send you into a contested domain, but
even completing that mission probably won't get you
an invitation to learn Obtenebration at his knee . Even
in the Sabbat, finding someone to teach you the
rudiments of a Discipline isn't the same as finding
someone good at a Discipline and willing to teach it to
you. Disciplines are extensions of the Kindred's undead
nature, not simply powers to be picked up and used
cavalierly . So making a character a sect official is not
carte blanche to run amok through the core rulebooks
like Oa bargain-hunter at a distress sale . n the other hand, simply buying up the maximum
allotment in the chosen clan's "signature"
Disciplines and leaving it at that is not necessarily the
best approach either . For one thing, sometimes points
are actually better spent in other areas of the character
sheet (see below) . For another, Disciplines, like all
Traits, help describe your character's particular theater
of competency, and competency is an even more
critical issue for sect officials than for other Licks .
•
Physical Disciplines
Of all out-of-clan Disciplines, these are the easiest
to justify for a character who serves as a sect official .
Many clans possess them, thus there are many potential
mentors to choose from . Characters can also, with
considerably more effort, develop them on their own .
Officials who belong to the less physically formidable
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
76
clans often end up learning physical Disciplines simply
to discourage their fellows from getting any bright ideas .
Whether in-clan or out-of-clan, physical Disciplines
are bound to prove useful at least occasionally .
However, they need not always be taken for the purpose
of creating a better overall "fighter ." The ability to
escape from a battle is nearly as precious as the ability to
land the first punch . Simply having the Fortitude to
absorb the wounds from a lightning ambush can ensure
that the character survives to engage her enemies in a
manner more suited to her talents later on .
People also tend to forget about the many noncombat
uses of the physical Disciplines . Celerity can
be almost as useful as Obfuscate for sneaking around
("I have how many seconds to grab all the files before
the security camera sweeps back this way?"). A templar
could use his mighty Potence to pound the shit out of
an errant pack of Sabbat fledglings one by one - or
he could use it to hold shut the door to the room he
wet-mopped with kerosene five minutes before (and
later leap to the top of a nearby two-story building,
just as the fire engines are pulling up) . Also, don't
forget the cultural factors . In the Sabbat, for example,
where ordeals to prove bravery at a ritus or innocence
at a trial are common, Fortitude has more than just
survival value .
Even sect officials whose physical Disciplines are
primary learn to be canny with them, playing to their
unique strengths. A Toreador antitribu templar with
more Celerity than Potence or Fortitude is unlikely to
rely on a medieval style of combat originally meant for
men wearing full armor and carrying broadswords -
even if he was raised to consider that the only proper
warfare for noblemen . Long years of contending with
bitter enemies and traitorous allies breed a dry pragmatism
in even the most stiff-necked of Cainites .
•
"Magical"/Unique Disciplines
Plainly, a rare Discipline, one held in fear and awe
by the majority of vampires, can be a powerful asset . It
can also be a serious liability . As a rule, the use of such
arts marks one's clan membership to knowledgeable
observers (anyone practicing Necromancy, for example,
will go down in most people's books as Giovanni
even if that happens to be untrue) . The clans that
possess such Disciplines often guard them to some
degree, if not to the extent of punishing outsiders who
dare to appropriate them . Said clans also tend to be the
more tight-knit and secretive of the Cainite world .
Thus, flaunting such Disciplines is a constant reminder
to other vampires that one's loyalties may be
divided ("Odd that the Lasombra Inquisitor just turned
into a snake .. . wonder who he owes a favor to?") . Some
officials deem it politically imprudent to provide such
reminders any more frequently than they must .
The usual caveats about purchasing uncommon Disciplines
apply. The character should have story justification
for it- in this case meaning that the Storyteller can use
that justification to make unlife hard for the character at
some point . Such difficulties can arise from the Discipline
itself or the prestation entanglements involved in acquiring
it. And remember that when one is an archon or
templar, prestation can present particularly delicate dilemmas.
Any personal debt to another Cainite, whether
that Cainite is a member of the character's sect or of its
rival, potentially interferes with the character's supposedly
higher loyalties .
•
Other Disciplines
Sect officials are problem-solvers by definition . Sometimes
their duties lean toward the analysis side ; sometimes
they lean toward application . Officials who work in
tandem with their peers can afford to specialize in one or
the other . Those operating undercover or far from their
bases of influence are not so lucky . Context is king .
Most Disciplines can serve equally well at either
end of the problem. Auspex is a godsend for a spy
character, yes, but it ain't half-bad for an assassin or a
scout, either . The first dot of Animalism can be unsubtle
(making a circus elephant stampede down Main
Street) or refined (start a little rat problem at the local
harpy's swank Elysium club) . Many clever archons and
templars have triumphed over adversity not by having
a panoply of Disciplines at their command, but by
playing up to and then dashing others' expectations of
how those Disciplines will be used .
What does this have to do with character creation?
Simply put, you don't have to settle for the
obvious . Certain clans and their accompanying Disciplines
are often thought of as more appropriate for one
kind of character concept than another - Brujah
make the best sheriffs because of their physical Disciplines,
Auspex and Presence make Toreador the best
harpies, and so forth. But that doesn't mean you have
to buy a lot of out-of-clan Disciplines to make your
Toreador sheriff or Brujah harpy viable. They could
just be unusually creative with their in-clan Disciplines.
Or if you do buy out-of-clan Disciplines, they
needn't be the ones that you assume go best with your
character concept .
•
Combination Disciplines
Combination Disciplines are a possibility whenever
experience or experience-like points are being
used in the character creation process (this includes
the "maturation" system from the Vampire Storytellers
Handbook as well as the Age Background . If using
the Age Background to buy a combination Discipline
power, treat each freebie as worth 3 experience points ;
don't forget to make sure you've already met the
Discipline minimums for the power) . That doesn't
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
77
mean the Storyteller has to allow them, however, so
ask before you set your heart on one . Combination
Disciplines are generally unique or obscure and acquired
only through long training with a mentor . Yes,
they must have been invented by someone to begin
with, but that someone was very likely a potent wielder
of the Disciplines in question .
Whether the Storyteller asks for it or not, you
should probably come up with the story of when, how
and why your character acquired the power . Was it
part of a move against some long-standing enemy? Was
it inspired by your character's quest for Humanity or
his Path beliefs? Does he flaunt this power or keep it
secret? How might other Cainites react to it?
The Appendix of this book lists some combination
Disciplines designed with sect officials in mind .
They can be used as is or as templates for designing your
own. Other combination Disciplines can be found in
the Guide to the Camarilla, the clanbooks and Libellus
Sanguinus I-IV of the Vampire : The Dark Ages line .
BACKGROUNDS
It could be argued that Backgrounds are the most
thought-provoking section of the character sheet . No
one exists in a vacuum, not even Cainites (however
much some may like to think of themselves as solitary
predators with no need for any relationship beyond the
hunter/prey type) . Backgrounds help define what a
character is in relation to society - mortal society as
much as undead, the micropolitics of the city as well as
the long-spun webs of sect, not to mention the Great
Jyhad itself.
AGE
Note: The Age Background appears in the Vampire
Storytellers Handbook, and is presented as an option .
Most sect officials are ancillae and elders, and so it
would be perfectly natural (though certainly not necessary)
to take this Background for your character . If
you do choose to play someone from a prior century,
strongly consider making a quick Internet search, or
watching a documentary, or picking up at least a kids'
book on "Life in the [XI Age" from the library, or
hitting up your neighborhood history fan for information
on the period in question . This will provide lots of
possible hooks and a satisfyingly different worldview to
try on . Also consider how you're going to fill in the
backstory . You might choose simply to write it up in
reasonable detail . Alternatively, you could convince
your Storyteller to run an extended Prelude, or even to
insert quick "flashback" scenes and stories here and
there into your chronicle . (Other players can take
temporary characters during these flashbacks, whose
stats may not even need to be determined . Consider it,
Storytellers . It can be a lovely change of pace .) The
Age Background isn't simply meant to trade experience
points for Humanity . It also profoundly changes
who your character is .
Especially important for a sect official is some
understanding of the character's past history with his
own sect, as well as with its enemies. Does your
Lasombra Inquisitor have a burning hatred for Toreador?
If he happens to be over 500 years old, perhaps he
remembers how the eloquence of a single Toreador
forever exiled him from the company of the idealist
Brujah whom he'd theretofore considered his staunchest
allies . An archon who once saw the Ottoman army
camped in siege on her beloved home city of Vienna
may well have strong opinions on welcoming Assamites
into the Camarilla . And so on .
ALLIES
Allies area necessity-sometimes a necessary evil
-for many Cainites, particularly those who yearn for
any kind of political or social career. Still, not all sect
officials need this Background . Cainite society may
well offer all the support system some want . A paladin
whose sole duty is to protect the cardinal whenever he
ventures forth from his high-security lair might get
along just fine without any real Allies to speak of (at
least until that inevitable night comes when she really
needs one) .
However, many sect officials' responsibility is
spread out over a large geographical area or a wide
spectrum of concerns, and only those with appreciable
levels of Obfuscate or Chimerstry can even look like
they're in two places at once (see the Appendix) .
Allies are "people on the ground," and even if they're
AGE BACKGROUND
We reprint this abbreviated Background here
for the convenience of those who don't own the
Vampire Storytellers Handbook, since sect officials
are so often chosen from among more
experienced Cainites:
•
Annuated: 200 years or less active, +30
freebies, -1 Humanity
•
• Elder : 200-350 years active, +55 freebies,
-2 Humanity
000
Hoary: 350-500 years active, +75 freebies,
-3 Humanity
•
000 Venerable: 500-750 years active, +90 freebies,
-4 Humanity
•
• • • • Ancient: Active more than 750 years, + 100
freebies, -5 Humanity
Note that characters on Paths of Enlightenment
take the Humanity penalty to their Path
rating instead .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
78
"only" mortals, they might have some vital bit of
information, keys to useful doors-enough to provide
the slight edge that makes all the difference, particularly
in unfamiliar territory .
Allies take more maintenance than Contacts, and
generally expect their favors to be returned sometime .
Itinerant sect officials don't have that much time and
attention to lavish on the folks in their home area -
assuming they have a home area . As a result, they often
make fewer Allies . What Allies they do have tend to be
influential in national, even worldwide communities
(from the Mafia to Amnesty International to the subscribers
of Strad magazine ; again, don't settle for the
obvious) . More sedentary officials, depending on the
exact nature of their duties, usually cultivate a handful of
Allies whose power base coincides geographically with
their own . That's only a general tendency - even real
homebodies need an out-of-town Ally once in a while .
Sometimes archons and templars are chosen on
the basis of their mortal connections - particularly
when high officials are looking for someone who can
serve as Masquerade "fixer" for a major network or
contract with Indonesian prostitution rings to provide
a steady stream of "forgettable" Blood Feast victims for
Cardinal Strathcona's Palla Grande. Indeed, it's not
utterly unknown for mortals to be Embraced on the
basis of such connections .
A note to elders, ancillae, and Sabbat : Be sure to
take your character's Humanity or Path into account
when buying mortals-centered Backgrounds like Allies,
Contacts, Herd and Retainers . A Tudor-era
Ventrue archon with Humanity 5 is not, in all likelihood,
going to be having a weekly late-night coffee
with the city's top homicide detective, nor is his Herd
likely to consist of girls from the sorority house two
blocks over who like to use his pool . Anybody on the
Path of Death and the Soul is going to creep even her
arms dealer out . This doesn't mean such characters
can't have relationships with mortals, just that those
relationships are likely to be chilly, fragile, and based
on well-tabulated mutual exploitation- or the hamhanded
use of vampiric power (a strategy almost
guaranteed to backfire) .
ALTERNATE IDENTITY
Note: The Alternate Identity Background appears
in the Guide to the Sabbat.
Discussions of deep-cover situations for sect officials
can be found elsewhere in this book . A character
often takes an Alternate Identity in order to serve as a
double agent, but consider other possibilities . For
instance, a Lasombra elder who has lost faith in the
modern Sabbat might decide to defect to the Camarilla,
but to come openly declaring her lineage and history
may well earn her the distrust, even the hatred of her
new colleagues - particularly if she's been an exemplar
for the Sabbat up till now . For such a character, it
might be wiser to construct a completely new identity
instead, claiming to be a recently awakened elder from
somewhere else, or even a neonate (assuming there are
no embarrassing anachronisms to give her away) .
Elders of both the Camarilla and the Sabbat also
occasionally construct neonate identities within their
own sects, usually to satisfy their paranoia about what
the youngsters are thinking, but sometimes they're
simply bored with their own unchanging social circle,
and hold out some futile hope that the vigor of later
generations will rub off on them . For those succumbing
to the elder thirst, an alternate identity can also be a
way of getting closer to the prey without scaring it off .
ARCANE
Note: The Arcane Background appears in the Vampire
Storytellers Handbook, and is presented as an option .
The few spies and deep-cover agents who have this
Background derive great professional benefit from it .
Remember, however, that a character with Arcane may
not take Status, Clan Prestige or Fame, and vice versa . It
simply doesn't make logical sense to have a character
whom nobody ever remembers, but everyone is eager to
help. Also, at the Storyteller's option, other social Backgrounds
such as Allies, Contacts, etc. may be limited to 5
minus the character's Arcane rating, either occasionally
or permanently . The Arcane must perforce walk a lonely
path. For some, of course, that's just the way they like it .
A word of warning; a high rating in Arcane can
serve as formidable protection against the natural
consequences of your character's actions . Broke the
Masquerade? The hunters will find the prince before
they find you . Pissed off an Inquisitor? Too bad he
doesn't have more Auspex . If you're planning a character
concept meant to take advantage of this
protection, do yourself a favor and warn the Storyteller.
There's nothing inherently unbalanced about
an agent provocateur for the Sabbat with 4 Arcane dots,
as long as your Storyteller is ready to provide the
appropriate downsides and tradeoffs -but he may not
want to go to the effort, or it may upset his whole
chronicle design . Even if he is willing to go with it, he'll
need time to come up with ways to keep your moves
from derailing the story .
BLACK HAND MEMBERSHIP
Note : The Black Hand Membership Background
appears in the Guide to the Sabbat .
In short, this Background is almost certainly a bad
idea for an archon or a templar, the former because
Black Hand are Sabbat, and the latter because templars
are specifically forbidden to join the Black Hand as
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
79
part of a checks-and-balances plan observed by the
Sabbat. Of course, this may be precisely your story
reason for wanting this Background . If so, well, you'll
never be able to say you weren't asking for it .
CLAN PRESTIGE
Note: The Clan Prestige Background appears in
the Guide to the Camarilla.
The Camarilla's hierarchical structure of archon/
justicar/Inner Circle only acknowledges clan differences
to the extent required to avoid charges of
favoritism. That is, each traditional Camarilla clan has
both an Inner Circle councilor and a justicar, which
purports to assure them equal representation (apparently,
nobody worth mentioning cares about equal
representation for the clanless, lesser bloodlines and
certain antitribu) . Justicars are not, however, given any
special restrictions or powers when it comes to dealing
with Kindred of their own clans . They can (and often
do) select archons belonging to other clans . As a
result, Clan Prestige is nowhere near as relevant to
most archons' duties as it is to, say, a primogen's .
Justicars do, however, sometimes become informal
authorities on matters that especially concern
their own clans . This expertise usually springs from
pre-existing ties and status, though being appointed
justicar does enhance one's Clan Prestige just a trifle .
(It also tends to make one powerful enemies within the
clan-few justicar elections go amicably .) As a result,
archons may find themselves dealing with vampires of
their justicar's clan unusually often - particularly if
they too belong to that clan. In such situations, Clan
Prestige becomes very relevant once again .
Officials of both sects also use Clan Prestige to cut
across the many obstacles that alienate them from
peers in other administrations, as well as among the
local Kindred of wherever they're currently operating
-red tape, regional distrust, the ever-changing political
landscape, etc . Granted, you can't rely on the
fellow-feeling of clan members . Clanmates are related
by blood, not usually by choice, and they certainly
experience all the sibling rivalry and generational
rancor one might expect as a result . On the other hand,
it may not hurt to remind a recalcitrant sheriff or the
paranoid templar of a neighboring bishop that publicly
interfering with his clanmate's sanctioned endeavors
could ultimately hurt his own Clan Prestige .
In the Sabbat, Prestige in the "backbone" clans, the
Lasombra and the Tzimisce, is nothing to discount .
Although they don't technically "rule" the Sabbat, they
do enjoy a disproportionate share of de facto power .
CONTACTS
Contacts may not be as individually useful as
Allies, but they are individually lower-maintenance
(that makes unlife easier for roving sect officials), and
collectively, they can prove potent indeed .
All too often, Camarilla officials end up working
for low-Humanity elders who believe strongly in delegation.
Their superiors may not even have that many
mortal Contacts of their own, instead relying on assistants
(in this case, your characters) to investigate some
facet of mortal society, figure out appropriate liaisons,
make them, and report in with the successful results .
Archons also do a lot of contending with Masquerade
breaches, especially those too drastic or too bizarre for
locals to fix alone . As a result, it's not at all uncommon
for a new archon to spend several years touring his
country or continent, not only to glean a general idea
of the state of Kindred society within it, but also to
"seed" in strategic Contacts here and there -performing
what any Sabbat would consider humiliating favors
for various mortals, all to be called in later when the
archon happens back that way .
Justicars also encourage their archons to cultivate
Contacts in domains claimed by dubious or impudent
princes and elders . Such vampires usually scramble to
clean up their acts when a sect official actually comes
to town, but a mortal sees what's going on when the
cat's away . Contacts in border zones between Sabbat
and Camarilla territory are likewise very important to
official operations-and very dangerous . Should their
identities be discovered by the enemy, they will probably
be killed or used as a vector for disinformation .
The Sabbat, meanwhile, would love everyone to
believe it doesn't rely on human Contacts . Spending
decades constructing intricate little shadow-empires is,
after all, the stuff of puling Ventrue dastards . Even the
Lasombra claim to have left that sort of wheedling
backstage aristocracy behind ages ago . Sabbat characters
must be careful in acquiring and wielding their Contacts
so as not to be accused of cozening with the living ;
discretion is key . Bishops, archbishops and cardinals, an
even less trusting lot than the justicars, can usually be
counted on to have at least a handful of suitably discreet
Contacts scattered throughout their areas of influence to
keep tabs on their underlings . When they do explicitly
delegate tasks of mortal association, it's often the most
distasteful ones, particularly those involving the acquisition
of vessels (such as contracting with the
aforementioned Indonesian pimps) and the cleanup of
what certainly look like -but must never be called! -
Masquerade breaches . This allows them to style themselves
True Sabbat while still taking care of business
sensibly . How the hapless templars defend their reputations
as True Sabbat while they're racking up long-distance
calls to Singapore is, of course, their own damn problem .
Templars who wander, either because their masters
wander or their duties demand it, frequently turn
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
80
to local packs for Contact information . They can also
acquire needed supplies or information at oases, just as
other Sabbat do . For such a character, at the Storyteller's
option, a high Contacts rating might represent her
skill at finding temporary Contacts through these sorts
of secondhand means, rather than a personal stable of
recurrent Contacts . Said Contacts probably won't
recognize the character and may be a bit unfriendly
when approached, but since Sabbat are far more likely
to bully and terrorize their Contacts into submission
than persuade them anyway, this may not present too
much of a problem .
FAME
. . .is usually as much burden as boon to a Vampire
character, but it certainly makes unlife interesting .
Mortals and vampires with national or worldwide Fame
usually aren't chosen to become officials (exceptions
have been made, but often the people in question are
those whose names are known far better than their faces
-painters, war correspondents, and so on, rather than
movie stars) . Those with a more localized Fame are
often sent far away from the areas where they earned it
and instructed not to go home or make official use of
their Fame unless truly needed for the good of the sect .
On the other hand, a character with vast Fame sees
things, knows people and gets into places more ordinary
folk (including ordinary Cainites) can't, so it's not
beyond conception for, say, a justicar to make an archon
out of a Brujah rock star planning a short US tour -
with instructions to make sure she accepts any social
invitations she may get from certain folk along the way .
Hey, she makes her living warbling at teenagers through
a layer of glitter and latex .. . who's going to suspect she's
gone political? And if she learns to take advantage of that
widespread underestimation, well, good for her.
Sometimes characters with Fame have a Discipline
like Obfuscate or Vicissitude that allows them to
disguise themselves when necessary, or simply a facility
with acting, makeup and costuming . This allows
Fame to be wielded somewhat more precisely .
GENERATION
The "typical" archon or templar is lower than
Thirteenth Generation, so many players will want to
set aside a creation point or two for this Background .
A high-generation sect official is more than an oddity .
In many places, he is a figure of spite, contempt or the
nameless, superstitious fear that has recently descended
like a polluted cloud upon the Last Generations . On
the other hand, there's no question that Cainites of the
Thirteenth Generation and above make up the fastestgrowing
segment of the world Cainite population .
Moreover, some of the very youngest possess ominous,
unprecedented abilities .
'IN '/
Despite their distaste, neither the Inner Circle nor
the prisci can afford to ignore these creatures any longer .
On the sly, some leaders of both sects have begun
recruiting the thin-blooded . Bishop Cicatriz was maintaining
faux-anarch Pander templars in the Anarch
Free State even before the recent collapse . Nor has he
fired them from their posts since . Justicar Maris Streck
had reportedly appointed a handful of the Clanless as
archons, giving them whatever jobs they could handle,
answering her detractors only with that bit from the
Book of Nod that ends with "Adopt the orphans where
you can, but watch them. ..." A wild story among the
Eastern European Sabbat even has Vykos bringing a
Seer to Cardinal Velya's manse, with the recommendation
that Velya make the little maggot a paladin . Since
no such youngling currently sits at Velya's Table of
Twelve, most Sabbat consider the rumor a clumsy
attempt to discredit both ancient Fiends .
HERD
Generally a rating in this Background represents
whatever the character has arranged at home, and will
become inactive when he ventures out into the wider
world . It is conceivable, however, to build up some
kind of rapport with a more scattered group of mortals,
such as an occult group with chapters in most major
American cities . If you have your heart absolutely set
CHAPTER THREE: CHARACTERS
8 1
on an itinerant sect official (mostly archons, but Inquisitors
and their templars would also certainly qualify)
with a working Herd rating, you might want to devote
some thought to how your character could ingratiate
himself with such a group . Such a far-flung Herd will
necessarily be less reliable than one that rests directly
under your character's thumb, and under certain circumstances
the Storyteller may decide to penalize your
hunting rolls .
Your character's Humanity score (or her Path) will
affect not only the quality of her interactions with her
Herd, but also how stable the Herd itself is . Don't give
your Path of Caine Assamite antitribu a big Herd if
you're not prepared to spend a certain amount of time
in the story finding replacements for the vessels she's
inevitably going to kill and maintaining whatever
hold she has over them . Even fanatical death cultists
start questioning the wisdom of their devotion when
they look around and see that they're the only founding
member left after six months .
INFLUENCE
Influence is specific to power as it is most commonly
appreciated in the mortal world : political, largely
governmental power. This sort of power is difficult for
any but elders to acquire and hold onto, as there's
always someone older, wilier or richer than you who
wants whatever you've got . Anywhere you go, the
locals have already done their best to sew up the
political machinery for their own uses . However, archons
who have earned the trust of particularly senior
justicars (those few justicars who have served in their
posts for many terms) are sometimes asked to take over
their superior's long-standing Influence in this or that
area of the world, and end up "inheriting," as it were,
a certain amount of personal Influence . Such Influence
comes with a long string attached, however, and
can be taken back if the character should prove unworthy
of it . Many more archons and alastors have Influence
collected from the nights before their appointment .
The question then is how - or whether - that
Influence is being maintained in the face of the
character's new duties .
In the Sabbat, as noted, Influence can actually be
a sort of stigma . It's taken as read that such worthies as
cardinals and archbishops are dread night-lords in
whose domains the mortals cower in abject terror,
accommodating vampiric interests without ever actually
quite believing in vampires, but most Sabbat don't
think to question just how this neat little trick is pulled
off. Sabbat high officials have the experience and
wisdom to ply their Influence invisibly, often using
their hapless subordinates as proxies so they can appear
all the more aloof from mortal doings . A Sabbat of
lesser rank than archbishop who's known to have a lot
of Influence actually risks losing Status as a result, so be
prepared to explain how your high-Sabbat Status,
high-Influence character is keeping his wheeling and
dealing out of sight of his fellow monsters .
Influence is valued in terms of geographical area,
but at the Storyteller's option it could be meant to
represent a breadth of category for a roving character :
two dots to give a character Influence with missingpersons
agencies throughout Europe, for example, as
opposed to a personal friendship with Lichtenstein's
ruling family .
As a side note to Storytellers, if you're worried about
a character's high Influence rating unbalancing the
game, remember that connections work both ways . Just
think what lovely things must have happened to all
those Ventrue and Toreador who'd spent centuries
cultivating ties with the ancien regime of France when
the Revolution came along . On the smaller scale, every
time the incumbent mayor doesn't win re-election, a
city's Influential Kindred must scramble to make sure
they keep a hand in the changing local politics .
MENTOR
When you become a sect official, you gain access to
the upper echelons of vampire society that few Cainites
enjoy (if enjoy is really the word) ; at the very least, you
ARCHON S AND TEMPLARS
82
have a relationship with your immediate superior, who
in turn has relationships with others of his rank .
That doesn't mean these people have to take the
slightest personal interest in you .
This is where the Mentor Background comes in .
Ordinarily, the Mentor rating represents an official's
relationship with her own superior, implying at least
the sort of mutual respect characteristic of mentor and
protege. Sometimes, however, the Background can
represent a sire instead . At other times, it turns out
that a character's superior lacks-or loses-regard for
her, but perhaps some colleague of his has better taste .
This can make for interesting political dynamics, and
it's not at all unheard of, particularly after incidents
where the archons or templars of various masters have
to cooperate in some emergency out in the field .
Stories of each other's competence are carried back
home, and as a result, some distant elder winds up
hearing more about the character's shining qualities
than her own superior does .
Particularly high ratings in Mentor might indicate
moderate interest from a number of powerful people
rather than the deep and abiding interest of one .
Remember above all that the relationship between
an official and that official's superior can be
much more intimate than you would think, given the
frequent separations many must endure (not to mention
the difference in station) . Twenty, 50, 100 years
even of occasional meetings add up . Moreover, we're
talking about people whose job is to involve themselves
closely, if not always sincerely, with some of the
most important questions facing the Cainites. Shall
we hide from mortals? Should we behave deliberately
like them, or deliberately differently? Why are our
opponents so evil? Are they evil, or simply deluded? Is
our duty to exterminate them or merely to thwart
them? Why are we so afraid of the Ancients? Is an
official who uses his office to pursue personal agendas
betraying his trust or simply claiming one of the few
perks of a hard job? And so forth. The higher your
Mentor rating, the more you may want to think about
where you and your Mentor both stand on some of
these elemental issues, because it's quite probable that
at least one of you has uncommonly strong feelings
about them.
MILITARY FORCE
Note : The Military Force Background appears in
the Vampire Storytellers Handbook, and is presented
as an option .
The prevalence of this Background varies . In Sabbatheld
territories, portions of the official military are
occasionally at least somewhat at the disposal of the
resident cardinals and archbishops (and whomever they
deem trustworthy to assist them), such as in Eastern
Europe or Mexico. In Camarilla territories, particularly
in nations with huge, well-equipped armed forces, direct
ownership of any military power is frowned on, considered
far too great a risk to the Masquerade - especially
since in many countries throughout both Camarilla and
Sabbat territory, it's already whispered that some topsecret
government bureau is about to assemble definitive
proof of vampires' existence . However, there may be
any number of smaller armed forces that don't formally
belong to a nation's military : amateur militias, guerrilla
rebels, police SWAT teams, high-tech security companies,
veterans' associations, enforcement men for drug
cartels, etc . An enterprising vampire can assemble a
personal strike force from these sorts of folks -but to be
honest, they really aren't all that useful to most officials,
except in those rare instances when sectarian conflict
ignites so fiercely that vampiric secrecy is more threatened
by standing aloof than by sending in Cainite-led
soldiery . Assaults on extremely remote havens and elder
tombs comprise another sort of occasion for which a
mortal strike force could prove handy or even essential
- vampires involved in Gehenna cults sometimes
maintain such forces for years just in case they're sud
denly needed.
RESOURCES
For mortals, Resources are quite literally a matter of
life and death . For vampires, they're anything from a
personal style choice to the very source of their power
(while it's quite true that money doesn't buy everything,
there are damned few processes it can't at least ease) .
Many Cainites - shovelheads, Gangrel, and
Ravnos spring to mind-believe a vampire isn't really
in tune with her true nature if she doesn't simply take
what she needs when she needs it and discard it when
she's done . There is some merit to this position ; it's
dirt-simple for most vampires to steal from most mortals.
Many archons, templars, and especially Inquisitors
eschew material possessions past what fits in a suitcase,
not only for the esthetics of the thing but also because
wanderers travel best when they travel light . Of course,
the password to a Swiss bank account doesn't weigh
much at all .
On the other hand, sometimes the only feasible
answer to an enemy who's throwing all his money into
taking you down is to throw more money back the
other way .
Officials whose duties are primarily investigative
(almost all Inquisitors and alastors, most archons and a
fair number of templars) should give strong consideration
to taking at least a couple of dots of Resources . It's
not necessary to be a millionaire, but bribing a company
janitor to bring you the paper trash without shredding it
costs money. So does acquiring and altering a designer
CHARTER T : CHARACTERS THRE
83
gown to wear to your suspect's salon ball, and so does
getting fake state ID made up for your trusty ghoul . The
vampires in any city an archon visits tend to be a
singularly unhelpful lot-but thank Caine, the mortals
can nearly always be bought . Some sect officials do
get a limited operating budget from their superiors .
Still, having Resources of their own both saves them
the humiliation of constant begging for funds and
permits them the occasional unlisted expense (which
their superiors would probably just as soon never know
about anyway) .
Resources, like nearly everything else, take maintenance.
Granted, a bank account stuffed with millions
that you can access worldwide over the phone is mostly
going to behave itself, unless someone else gets your
password. But stocks have to be monitored, shrewdly
bought and sold . Houses have to be kept up, lightproofed
and guarded. Collectibles have to be placed in proper
storage conditions with appropriate security (a fourthcentury
fragment of the Cycle of Lilith is not going to
age well sitting in a shoebox under your floorboards) .
Corporations have to be managed with at least minimal
competency. Criminal operations are even more
prone to hostile takeovers than the average investment
firm. All this takes work, so if your character is
going to be too busy torching Setite crackhouses and
touring archaeological dig sites to do it, better make
sure you saved some points for Retainers .
RETAINERS
In a word, yes. For one thing, almost anything that
goes on during daylight requires a mortal, and few
vampires will trust any but the most loyal of them to
operate in this particularly vulnerable sphere of their
existences . Even a mere bodyguard will want allies who
can, for example, reconnoiter the layout of the casinohotel
at which her mistress will be meeting the Giovanni
delegation tonight . Many Camarilla archons have a
Retainer who travels with them as body-servant, daytime
guard and gofer. Other Retainers watch their
Kindred patrons' holdings whenever sect business calls
them away (which is most of the time) or keep tabs on
things in an area the archon considers a "hot spot" for
traitorous activity or Sabbat stirrings .
Sabbat, by contrast, are not supposed to get friendly
with mortals. Fortunately, Sabbat Retainers are seldom
motivated by friendship . Templars and Inquisitors
usually find it necessary to make ghouls of their mortal
servants, since these almost universally traumatized
souls might just panic and flee if they get far enough out
of their masters' terrifying reach -and that's precisely
where sect officials often have to send their proxies .
With a blood bond in place, however, Sabbat can
proceed to treat their ghouls with exquisite (and appropriately
distancing) cruelty without too much fear
V
of betrayal . As a rule, the more a Sabbat official must
rely on a particular ghoul, the more drastic and public
the cruelty will be . Appearances must be kept up . On
the other hand, Sabbat officials also tend to keep
whatever ghouls they do make better-fed than usual,
since their enemies will likely target the ghouls repeatedly
and mercilessly . (In the Camarilla, there's a general
unspoken agreement that baldly killing, maiming, and
kidnapping others' ghouls shows poor breeding and
threatens the Masquerade . The Sabbat has no such
concerns of etiquette .)
Other Sabbat officials prefer to use Disciplines to
keep their servants in line . This works well enough for
your pack's Lurch-like major-domo or a mousy police
dispatcher who never had a personality to begin with .
Still other Sabbat swear by animal ghouls . With Animalism,
they can make excellent spies . A really large,
really nasty ghoul dog is the most portable haven
security system on earth, and many others besides the
Gangrel know it.
Elder Sabbat officials, almost exclusively Tzimisce,
still sometimes employ the ancient revenant families
as Retainers . The inhuman Obertuses, Zantosas and
Bratoviches don't blend into normal society very well,
but they're more powerful than most ordinary ghouls,
and can be of tremendous assistance in their particular
areas of specialty . The Grimaldis make better liaisons
with the mortal world, but remember that all Grimaldis
are blood-bound to a Sabbat of bishop rank or higher .
If you take a Grimaldi Retainer, determine who his
domitor is before the story starts . Hopefully, that
individual is either your character's superior or some
other ranking Sabbat who is generally friendly to your
character's objectives .
In addition to their domestic duties, ghouls are
also used as scouts by sect officials pursuing sect
matters . Although they usually can't divine much
about the local Kindred on their own, they can do
quite a bit of subtle surveillance if given advance
information about where to go and who to watch for .
The dirty tricks one can play with ghouls are nearly
limitless . Federico DiPadua, for example, stole a spytactic
from the diplomacy of his breathing days in
Italy He sends an agent into a city ahead of him,
bearing a letter for the prince announcing his imminent
visit . The letter always concludes with the
eminently reasonable request that the ghoul be allowed
to stay as a guest in the prince's household
while awaiting the arrival of his master - which
could take anywhere from a week to a couple of
months. A certain Tzimisce Inquisitor keeps a stable
of devoted Retainers so they won't be recognized as
they tail a mark, tag-team style, from city to city . One
paladin to Cardinal Strathcona learned everything
ARCHON S AND TEMPLARS
84
he knows about forensics from a ghoul P . I. he kept for
40 years (and then killed without ceremony) .
The bottom line is, let your imagination go wild
when it comes to the Retainers of sect officials . Almost
anything has a conceivable use . Just bear in mind that
ghouls have to either be fed once a month (inconvenient
if they're frequently separated from their domitor)
or vouchsafed a stored supply of their domitors' blood
(hope the local Tremere don't find that out) . Ghouls
also tend to turn frighteningly paranoid when they're
starting to run low on vitae, especially the older they
get. If your Retainers aren't ghouls, then you have to
decide what keeps them in your service .
RITUALS
Note: The Rituals Background appears in the
Guide to the Sabbat .
This Background is almost exclusively found among
the Sabbat - the only Camarilla with Rituals are
Sabbat defectors, in which case they often face neverending
distrust from their new sectmates and probably
a Wild Hunt from their old ones, if word ever gets out
to either . Camarilla Kindred sometimes make an
outsider's study of ritae and end up with the Sabbat
Lore Knowledge instead, which is wholly different .
The usefulness of being able to hold ritae whenever one
wishes cannot be overestimated . Inquisitors use them
to ferret out the impious ; templars use Fire Dances to
inspire War Parties before an attack and hone the
abilities of their companions with Games of Instinct ;
and Sabbat officials of all stripes swap, finesse, and
handicap Vaulderies and Vinculums as though they
were a sort of emotional/political coin of the realm . Of
course, this isn't far from the truth .
The only catch to taking this Background is that
it generally only makes sense for Licks who are, or have
been, their pack's priest . Others sometimes can and do
learn the ritae, but you and your Storyteller should
agree on how exactly this came about in your character's
case - it's likely to involve prestation or similarly
entangling circumstances .
STATUS AND SABBAT STATUS
Of course you'll be buying Status, right? How can
you possibly impress your authority on the philistine
masses otherwise?
Well, yes. Even in the hierarchy-conscious Camarilla,
and certainly in the relatively meritocratic Sabbat, an
official cannot expect to walk into a room and command
the immediate awe of everyone present, simply because
she bears her superior's token. To the extent that they
respect her superior, they are likely to behave politely, but
they can be perfectly polite and yet somehow fail to find
space in their schedules to do her bidding . Even the offer
of a personal boon will far more likely inspire them to
move Heaven and Earth if they believe she truly has
status, and thus power, in her own right .
On the other hand, it might be interesting to play,
say, a pack of brand-new templars that no one's ever
heard of. For these Cainites, the need to prove themselves
worthy of their recent honor will serve as
admirable motivation for many stories to come . Then
there are more experienced officials who work undercover
a great deal of the time . Either they have Status
but lose access to it when traveling incognito, or else
they're such enigmas that they never manage to gain
any Status in the first place and wouldn't know what
the hell to do with it if they did . Such characters might
want to consider taking the Arcane Background as
partial compensation, with a caveat - see above .
Status works somewhat differently in the two sects .
The Camarilla prides itself on operating by something
like the rule of law (as close as undead parasites can get,
anyway), and struggles to instill in its subjects the notion
that authority should be respected for its own sake .
Camarilla Status might thus acknowledge either the
dignity of the office itself, or the personal dignity of the
official, or both . The Camarilla also awards points for
sheer longevity -a neonate archon would have to work
a lot harder to gain three dots in Status than an ancilla .
In the Sabbat, which has its hoary roots in youthful
rebellion, there's a lot more indulgence toward the
ambitious . If a templar, paladin, or Inquisitor falls to the
fangs or machinations of an inferior, well, he simply got
soft . C'est la mort . Most likely, a Sabbat official with
Sabbat Status has had to back it up on multiple occasions,
possibly even through Monomacy .
Status is most often gained by exploits, and exploits
typically end with a grateful party and an injured
party. The more Status your character has, the more
you may want to dig into the subject of who is and isn't
overjoyed with the character's rising fortunes . This
includes boons, enmities, and anything along those
lines - whether you formally describe them with
Merits and Flaws or not.
This is a good place to mention that Backgrounds,
Merits, Flaws, etc . are more interesting when they play
into each other . Perhaps your Gangrel alastor wound
up with an extra dot of Resources because he's getting
hush money from a certain Tzimisce who also introduced
him to his primary Contact . What if the
Nosferatu primogen in the city knows how crooked he
is and is working secretly to expose him, thus serving
as an Enemy Flaw? It's not necessary to connect all the
dots (or even most of them), but the more coherent
you can make your character's Traits, the more coherent
his backstory is likely to be .
With officials, Status is even more serious business
than usual . They're granted more opportunities than
CHAPTER THREE: CHARACTERS
85
the average character to take part in the sort of sectwide
business that earns sectwide Status. On the other
hand, the more they have, the more they have to lose,
so they must also guard their Status more zealously
than the average character . Even if they personally
don't mind being laughingstocks at the last Grand
Conclave, their superiors are unlikely to take with
such good grace the blunting of their precious tools .
Unfortunately, sect officials all too often find themselves
pitted against Cainites who really aren't much
impressed by their Status : members of the rival sect,
troublesome Independents, their own elders, and so
on. Still, if a templar gains enough sect Status to
become a household name to every pack in the Americas,
it becomes increasingly likely that even Camarilla
vampires will grant her a grudging respect (which may
well take the form of signing her up to the Red List, but
it's the thought that counts) .
MERITS AND FLAWS
Merits and Flaws are, as always, available only
with Storyteller permission . Storytellers may wish to
consider breaking the seven-point-maximum rule on
Flaws in the case of archon and templar characters, to
reflect the extraordinary ups and downs of their undead
careers . However, any such leniency should be understood
as a story enhancement, not a license to abuse
the point-based character creation system .
COTERIES/PACKS
One of two things has happened . Either one or
more players expressed a desire to play a sect official, or
the Storyteller announced that the game will be focusing
on the activities of sect officials . Now it's your job
to come up with a character that fits within that
context . What do you do?
DEMOGRAPHICS
You'll have a better chance of finding your niche
within the pack or coterie when you know what its
overall makeup will be . If your Storyteller has strong
opinions on this subject, there's probably a chronicle
reason . If not, you might want to sit down with the other
players, put together what you know about the story so
far and consider the options . There are a number of
possibilities, each with its own considerations .
PEERS
In this setup, all the characters are sect officials,
and their relative standing, while not necessarily equal,
is close enough that precedence becomes moot most of
the time . This can be a good thing, particularly if your
fellow players tend to get competitive ; people are less
likely to feel shortchanged . On the other hand, it
I
doesn't mean there won't still be a struggle for control
-on the character level, the player level, or both -
and there won't be any in-game formalities to govern
the situation .
But this immediately begs the question of why
your characters are together, since tight-knit social
groups consisting entirely of officials are fairly rare in
vampire society . Sect elders generally do not appoint
existing packs or coteries to posts en masse . Your group
could always be the exception, but the circumstances
would likely be something extraordinary - for instance,
you've all stumbled over a justicar's deepest
secret and this is his clever way of keeping an eye (and
a thumb) on you . It's much more likely that your
characters were assembled by superiors for some specific
purpose . Perhaps they're an archon coterie assigned
to expose and prosecute an especially old and wily
prince . Or perhaps they're the "fixers" for a cardinal, a
crack team of top performers in various areas kept
permanently on call . Alternatively, an all-official group
might form itself: say, an informal circle united only by
their mutual, blood-bond-enhanced devotion to an
incredibly charismatic justicar.
Once the group's goal is determined, you have to
come up with your character's relationship to that
goal . He can love it or hate it, but he probably shouldn't
hate it in a way that's going to alienate him from his
fellows constantly (that tends to damage player morale)
. Circumstances will affect attitude . A group
thrown together to deal with a crisis, even if it ends up
staying together afterward, is going to have a very
different feel from one that's been trained together as
a permanent unit . For instance, in a crisis, tempers
flare - but different personality types are also more
likely to want to put aside their differences because of
the looming need to cooperate .
OFFICIAL AND STAFF
In this type of group, one character is a sect official
while the others mostly support the official in her
duties - servires, ghouls, childer, etc ., which means
that all the players have to accept the idea of one
character being somewhat central and even superior .
When designing your own character, however, you
should still keep the goal of everyone having equal fun
in mind . If you're playing the official, try not to pour on
the personal melodrama too thickly (otherwise, the
Storyteller will be so busy dealing with your duties,
your Dark Fate, your True Love, and your estranged
sire that nobody else stands a chance) . If you're playing
one of the subordinate characters, by contrast, don't
rely on complaining to the Storyteller to get yourself
enough limelight. Go the extra mile to create a character
with historical and personal hooks for the
Storyteller and your fellow players to exploit . Also
ARCHONS AND TEMPlARS
86
bear in mind that this kind of coterie or pack is usually
brought into existence so that the chronicle can focus
intently on sect business . You probably won't get much
gratification if you create a character whose assistance
is only truly needed in one out of five operations .
OFFICIAL AND ALLIES
This kind of group most often consists of an official
and the coterie or pack he belonged to before his
appointment. In the Sabbat, the Vaulderie can sometimes
lead to such intimacy that packmates become
reluctant to break up even when the paths of their
unlives diverge . This is a great way to set up the group
when sect politics are supposed to be one plotline
among several . However, it's probably best if the nonofficials
in the group take more than a passing interest
in either the sect's well-being or that of their resident
official - since running a lot of solo scenes with the
official character will eventually get tedious, even if
the other players take temporary characters to portray
during them.
Remember that to most high officials in either
sect, the allies of their archons and templars are a big
security issue. Should they really be allowed along? If
they are, how is their loyalty and discretion to be
assured? To some extent, archons have latitude to
deputize servires and delegate tasks to them, but there's
an unspoken limit to that latitude. Bishops and archbishops
are notorious for assigning their templars to
"sensitive" matters, both political and personal. In
other words, it's probably not wise to bring a Caitiff
with known anarch sympathies into this type of archon
coterie unless everyone in the game is prepared
to deal with the justicar's attitude toward her possible
"bad influence" on his archon.
ODD MAN OUT
You could have a pack or coterie where only one
character is a non-official, or only one character isn't
the type of person to get involved in sect business .
This role can have its little joys. You might end up
playing devil's advocate, doubting Thomas or Greek
chorus to the rest of the group, for example . If your
Storyteller has already stated that the ethical ambiguities
of power form the central theme of the
chronicle, such a character could help out greatly .
Constant ambiguity isn't everyone's idea of a good
time, however . If your character is the odd Lick out
when it comes to sect business, you'll probably want
to have multiple ties of other sorts to the group, so
that your repeated involvement stays plausible . Alternatively,
you could simply let your diffident
character become ever more involved in sect business
as the chronicle progresses . He doesn't have to necessarily
enjoy the process, of course .. . .
ON BLOOD
Sabbat packs are commonly bound together in the
Vinculum, though Vaulderie taken with other sectmates
may complicate that relationship . When your Sabbat
character is an official, it behooves you to contemplate
all the Vinculum ties she might have, their relative
strengths, and how that affects her dealings with others .
If her pack serves one bishop, that's a fairly simple
matter . But what if she's the only templar in the pack
and her bishop insists on her coming to his Vaulderie at
least as often as her pack's? And how will he feel if, in
spite of all that, her Vinculum toward him is still
secondary to that of her packmates? What if he wants
her to join a new pack altogether? What if she's been
obliged to share the cup with Sabbat officials she doesn't
care for, all as part of some negotiation or joint mission?
Storytellers might consider, rather than rolling dice,
simply giving the players ratings of four, five or six in the
Vinculum for each person the character has shared the
cup with, then sitting down with the player and assigning
those Vinculi according to what seems like the most
fun for the story .
In the Camarilla, blood bonds are usually a more
private matter . Yes, Kindred "couples" sometimes flaunt
their unity in Blood, and the occasional domineering
prince will boast about all the disobedient Kindred he's
brought to heel with the oath . But most elders hate to
admit they've had to do anything so crass as bind
someone in blood in order to control them . Kindred of
the Camarilla are supposed to be subtler than that . The
question of whether archons are always, never or
sometimes bound to their justicars is deliberately kept
mysterious by justicars and archons alike - for the
simple reason that sometimes it's to their advantage to
let people think a particular archon will behave a
certain way, and sometimes that's the last thing they
want people to think . All one can say for certain is that
there's far more trafficking in blood-slavery in the
upper echelons of Kindred society than anyone would
like to believe . Many archons are already torn between
ideal and reality, duty and desire . Bringing in a blood
bond to a powerful superior - or an old lover, or an
enemy! -adds yet another tragic wrinkle . This doesn't
mean you have to give your archon character a blood
bond to his justicar, but it's not at all unlikely either.
Decide what's best for your story and the overall
chronicle, then let the Traits fall where they may .
CHAPTER THREE : CHARACTERS
87
DAISY CHAINS
AND OTHER MISDIRECTION
Some archons, as noted elsewhere, don't
really cotton to the idea of their loyalty being
enforced by blood . Of those archons, a number
flat-out refuse to drink . Justicars subscribe to a
wide, delicately shaded variety of opinions on
binding archons . Sometimes the justicars accept
this refusal, sometimes they don't . . . and sometimes
they try to contrive some sneaky way of
having their archons bound anyway .
A few new archons are nevertheless well
enough acquainted with Kindred treachery to
suspect that they might end up bound to their
justicars - if they don't take preventive steps .
Other archons, particularly those regularly sent
against the Sabbat or the Independents, seek
such advance protection out of fear of getting
captured and bound by the enemy.
One method, pioneered by a praetor archon
many centuries ago, involves having one
archon bound to another archon, who is in
turn bound to another different archon, etc .,
until the chain of bonds comes full circle back
to the first archon . While this may not exactly
make for an easy time emotionally (this
amounts, after all, to a group of people who all
suffer from unrequited affection for someone
who devotes it to them or vice versa), it does
protect everyone concerned from unwanted
bonds. It further assures that if one archon gets
into deep trouble, one or more of her fellowarchons
will get involved in her rescue . Some
archons, on the other hand, simply pair up into
mutual blood-bonds (see the discussion on this
subject in Chapter Four) . More ruthless sorts
select some hapless, less powerful vampire, stake
and imprison him in some impregnable area,
then bind themselves to him .
A recurrent rumor among the European archons
holds that several of their number are
actually trying to learn the Vaulderie or some
muttered, sorcerous rite in order to break themselves
of bonds to their justicars, but so far no
names have been named .
I

r
Long ago, violence was the order of the night . Archons
and templars (and their predecessors) were little more than
soldiers and muscle, and every problem could be solved by
the swing of a taloned hand or the crack of a musket.
Not anymore . Never has the Masquerade been
more vital . Modern methods of communication make
any breach potentially disastrous, and even the Sabbat,
for all they rant and rail against it, aren't anxious to face
thousands of angry kine wielding flamethrowers . When
the masses of humankind again grow dangerous, when
most of the threats an archon or a templar faces come
from within her own sect, when wars are fought through
proxies and pawns like so many chess pieces, subtlety
becomes the watchword of the modern nights .
Violence is rarely subtle, but the Kindred have had
lifetimes to get it right .
To conquer the enemy without resorting to war is the
most desirable . The highest form of generalship is to
conquer the enemy by strategy .
- Sun Tzu, The Art of War
CHAPTER Four : OF WITS AND WISDOM
89
ARCHONS
For all their (alleged) authority, archons are in
an unenviable position when it comes to carrying
out their duties to the justicars and the Camarilla .
How the heck do you hold the line against a rival
sect that commands a whole lot more experienced
soldiers than you do? How do you "investigate" an
elder with the power - politically, militarily and
possibly even physically - to make you disappear
without a trace if you ask the wrong questions of the
wrong people? Above all, how do you fulfill your
obligations to the Camarilla when you, your allies
and your superiors are firmly mired in clinging webs
of prestation and debt?
The answer, of course, is very, very carefully .
C'
t
INTERNAL AFFAIRS
Some archons actually prefer battling the Sabbat
or werewolves to dealing with internal threats to the
sect, as at least they then know for certain who the
enemy is. An archon operating inside Camarilla territory
against Camarilla Kindred must beware of eyes in
every window and daggers in every hand .
The best methods of dealing with her fellow
Kindred are the first things an archon learns after
being selected by a justicar . This isn't a formal lesson
imparted by lectures and tests . The new archon is
given a few pointers, made to comprehend that her
former understanding of politics and prestation means
little in the face of her new circumstances, and sent
on her way . She either adapts quickly, learning which
tactics and techniques work and which do not, or she
fails, in which case the justicar usually has to find
another new archon.
PROBABLE CAUSE
Archons don't just sit around waiting for their
justicar to summon them and tell them "Go here and
do this ." Although archons do receive such assignments,
many of them spend their time traveling from
city to city, searching for issues that require their
attention . Archons require a justicar's approval to take
actions that will drastically alter the balance of power
in a city or adversely affect a powerful elder, but they
have substantial discretion when it comes to other
matters . Traveling archons often wander for years,
solving problems as they come across them, without
ever being given a specific task by a superior .
PULOLING RANK ften the first recourse of the inexperienced or
overconfident, this is rarely the best way for an archon
to operate . Strictly speaking, an archon does have the
authority to stride into a prince's court and begin
demanding cooperation . Sometimes, when dealing
with a prince with nothing to hide (or nothing relevant
to hide) and who's more concerned with solving her
current troubles than she is with maintaining every
last bit of face, this actually works . The archon is
almost certain to leave ill will behind when he departs,
though, as even these princes don't take kindly to
being pushed around .
It's rarely even that easy . As often as not, it's the
prince, or one of the primogen or other local elders,
whom the archon has come to investigate . Since it's
rather difficult to demand cooperation without announcing
your presence, you've already thrown out
any advantage you might have gained by working
undercover (see below) . Heavy-handed ultimatums
also risk raising the ire of the other elders . At best,
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
90
they are less likely to assist you in your endeavors,
and at worst you may have driven them into an
alliance with your quarry .
Pulling rank is more effective when dealing with
Kindred outside the halls of power . The prince and
primogen may have the status and political clout to
stand up to your demands, but most neonates and
ancillae on the streets do not . Most Camarilla vampires
are smart enough to realize that it's in their best
interests to cooperate, and those who don't can usually
be intimidated, bluffed or even beaten into submission
. Again, this is only an option if you don't mind
announcing to the city at large that there's an archon
in town, and it's not exactly subtle .
Although such reactions are inconvenient, clever
archons have learned to turn them to their advantage .
Many archons operate in coteries . If word appears to
have leaked out that archons have come to the city, a
single member - or perhaps two - may deliberately
make their presence known as a diversion or a stalking
horse . This is usually sufficient to divert the attentions
of the local Kindred from the remainder of the coterie,
allowing them to continue the operation undisturbed .
It may also draw out the subject of the investigation, if
he sees the opportunity to "deal with" the archons
without getting caught . Putting oneself in the crosshairs
is obviously a risky proposition, but many archons are
willing to take that chance if it means luring their prey
out into the open .
Archons are also more likely to announce their
presence if their purpose in an area is preventive,
rather than investigative or punitive . The presence -
or even the rumored presence - of an archon often
sends a subtle message to a prince or other elder whose
actions have not yet crossed the line from ambitious to
problematic. An archon who is simply "passing
through," who has arrived to deal with an unrelated
issue or simply to pay a courtesy call (yeah, right), is
often enough to make a scheming elder think twice
before following through on her questionable agenda .
This technique works well enough that archons sometimes
don't bother traveling to the city at all, instead
using various connections to spread false rumors of
their impending arrival. No sense in expending unnecessary
effort if a few whispered lies will do the job
just as effectively .
Many archons also find it very interesting to see
which way the elders jump when they start feeling the
pressure . An archon who's got a close eye on the locals
before she announces her presence can often spot signs
of guilt or innocence simply by watching which way
the roaches scurry when she steps into the Elysium and
turns on the lights .
SOCIAL OBLIGATIONS
As much as most archons despise the political
necessities that take them away from their other duties
(or their own schemes), sometimes the justicars need
to make their presence felt in Elysiums and at social
fetes across the globe . When a stable faction or prince
finally reins in the chaos that is New York City, for
instance, you can bet that archons will be on the guest
list at the early meetings at that table .
Some less experienced archons fail to grasp the
purpose of such endeavors . Why should they waste
their time schmoozing and being seen when real problems
demand attention? They don't realize that a show
of interest (and force) now can head off potential
problems down the road . An elder who knows she
counts archons among her guests has received notice
that the Camarilla has taken an interest in her activities,
and hopefully proves wise enough to moderate her
behavior and her scheming accordingly . At the same
time, a similar message is being sent to those who
might threaten the prince or primogen in question .
The archons wouldn't have announced their presence
if they were working to undermine the local power
structure ; since they did, they must be happy (or at
least content) with the status quo, and probably won't
take kindly to anyone rocking the boat . Thus, the
presence of archons at a prince's Elysium can actually
stabilize a domain far more effectively than anything
the prince himself might have done .
UNDERCOVER OPERATIONS
During internal investigations, archons often operate
in secret, announcing their presence (as above)
only when they've gained all the information and
accomplished all the objectives they can while incognito
. By staying beneath the local radar, an archon can
keep her ear to the ground and follow up on contacts
and leads without the powers that be throwing constant
obstacles in her path . Many Kindred who avoid
archons like the plague are more than willing to trade
information for favors or bribes when the interested
party is "nobody special ."
Working undercover entails substantial risk,
though, enough that some archons still prefer to
operate in the open unless that is not an option .
Remaining anonymous means that you don't draw
the attention (or the fire) of those who are desperate
to avoid discovery . At the same time, many Kindred
who would fear to thwart or slay an archon have no
compunctions about disposing of some nameless
Lick who stuck his nose where it didn't belong.
Remaining undercover doesn't necessarily mean
avoiding attention; it often just means substituting
one sort of threat for another .
CHAPTER FOUR OF WETS AND WISDOM
91
An undercover archon also has fewer resources to
draw on, and less in the way of backup if things go sour .
Princes and primogen may resent an archon coming in
and throwing his weight around, but they're likely to
make at least a show of cooperation, if only to keep a
suspicious eye from being turned their way . Any aid
they might offer, however halfheartedly, is denied an
archon who keeps her presence secret . If you're in town
undercover you can't ring up the prince and tell him,
"Say, I'm having a problem with some Cathayans near
the docks ; would you be kind enough to send me the
sheriff and his bruisers? Thank you so much." If you're
part of an archon coterie, you've at least got them
watching your back, but if not. . . .
Well, you may "officially" have the backing of the
justicars and the entire Camarilla, but they're not here
now. An undercover archon is on her own . Period .
Again, some creative - some would say cruel -
archons have developed techniques to turn these apparent
disadvantages around. For instance, Gracie
Velasquez, great-grandchilde of Federico DiPadua and
a well respected archon in her own right, has developed
a truly nasty habit of carrying enough fake evidence
on her to prove beyond the shadow of a doubt that the
bearer is indeed an archon . She remains undercover
until it seems the local authorities are beginning to
realize there's an archon among them . She then plants
her "evidence" so that it points to the person or the
haven of some other local vampire . She usually chooses
those who are guilty of some wrongdoing unrelated to
her current case, or who have given her a hard time in
the course of her investigation. By observing her
catspaw (and those who decide to take action against
him), she often learns precisely who in the city has the
most fear of discovery by the "archon," and even how
much danger they pose . Armed with this knowledge,
she then arranges sufficient support from either her
fellow archons or the uninvolved local elders so she
can confront her true target .
The foremost difficulty to overcome is an archon's
lack of contacts and allies in a strange city . The prince,
elder or other subject of his investigation has them .
The archon likely does not . Many archons prefer to
approach those who are known, or at least suspected,
to harbor a grudge against the subject already, perhaps
a rival elder or a resentful childe . This is a dangerous
ploy-an obvious rivalry isn't always a real one -and
the archons prefer to do this through agents or proxies,
without revealing their true identity or motives . Some
archons arrange to perform a small boon for the potential
contact even if it means arranging the situation
that will require their aid in the first place to more
firmly cement such an alliance . Others ingratiate
themselves with their actual suspect through similar
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
92
means, hoping to gather evidence by staying as near
the source as possible .
Bribes are an archon's friends . Most Licks in a
given city don't know much about the goings-on in
Elysium, but chances are they know someone who
knows someone who does. Archons often make local
contacts by bribing their way up these social chains
until they find someone who can be persuaded to talk
about the current situation .
An undercover archon must have an appropriate
cover story . She can claim to be a local, but only when
dealing with those same rank-and-file Kindred. Anyone
of higher status is likely to be able to pick her out
as an outsider - remember how small the Kindred
population of the average city really is . On the other
hand, while an outsider or new arrival might be easier
to pull off, and might get the archon into Elysium and
other places that a "local" cover cannot, it's also more
likely to draw attention . Kindred are paranoid enough
by nature that if a scheming elder notices a new arrival,
he's likely to mistrust her simply because she's an
unknown element. Many archons favor taking the
place of a local figure (as doppelgangers often do), or
selecting a number of locals (carefully chosen, of
course) as hands and letting them do most of the
poking around.
The next problem is evidence . Not that it's hard to
find, but that it rarely exists in solid form . Kindred
stupid enough to leave paper trails don't stay undead
for long . Yes, an archon will occasionally get lucky and
find an incriminating letter or e-mail, but this is rare .
Archons rely largely on testimony from other Kindred,
simply because that's often the only evidence to be
had. Sometimes the validity of these statements can be
confirmed via Auspex . At other times, the archons are
simply required to judge by the same criteria as mortal
courts: if enough people claim the same thing, it's
probably true . It is preferable for such testimony to
come willingly . Archons do have other means of
acquiring it-secretly recording conversations, threatening
the informant with the wrath of the Camarilla
(this is tantamount to breaking cover, so don't do it if
you're still investigating), or even forcing the information
through brute force or Disciplines - but none of
these techniques are as reliable as a cooperative witness
. This is actually easier than it sounds . Offered
sufficient reward (a piece of the suspect's power base
after they're taken down is an old favorite), most
witnesses become cooperative indeed .
Still, modern archons do have other means of
proving guilt . Wiretaps, electronic eavesdropping,
computer hacking - these are all things that many
elders are not prepared to deal with, and fail to counter .
It may be rude, even politically suicidal, to bug the
I
PROOF OF OFFICE
No one has assembled any concrete statistics on the subject, but the best guess is that almost one in
five archons who have met Final Death in the course of their duties were brought down by "friendly fire"
(or "friendly claws," "friendly swords," etc . ) . The Camarilla hasexisted for over five centuries, and has had
archons- or some equivalent -serving that entire time, yet the sect still has no satisfactory method of
identifying those archons .
How does an archon who has just arrived in town convince the prince and primogen that she
is who she says she is? How does she convince the scourge that she's not just some border-dwelling
autarkis, that it's only a cover identity, before she's either forced to kill him or fall beneath his
fangs? Most princes have the means of contacting the justicars - eventually. The process takes
nights, weeks or even longer, and in the interim the archon's ability to function is crippled at best .
At worst, the archon is already dead .
The alastors all bear the Mark of the Beast, but a tattoo is not a viable solution for the archons en masse .
For such a symbol to serve as identification, it would have to be widely known and there goes any
possibility of an archon successfully working undercover . Not to mention the problems caused when every
anarch from New York to Los Angeles decides it'd be a real boost to get the same tattoo ; or when an archon
retires, or is forced to retire, from service .
The idea of badges has never been seriously brought up (except once, in 1958, by the Malkavian
justicar Matthew Dresden . Dresden was literally laughed out of conclave and was replaced - by a
unanimous vote - at the end of his term) . Any form of identification so obvious and so easy to forge
or steal will clearly not function under these circumstances, to say nothing of the logistical
nightmare involved in keeping a record of badge numbers for an organization as informal and fluid
as the archons.
The Tremere are currently at work on developing a thaumaturgical mark, not entirely unlike the one
inflicted on their late antitribu. This mark would be visible only when the archon desired it, and would be
nigh impossible to forge by virtue of its magical nature . Unfortunately, the Warlocks haven't yet succeeded
in their efforts, and many archons would surely prove reluctant to submit themselves to such a ritual in any
case. Additionally, the Tremere would no doubt create a "back door" to this secret brand, which would
allow them to see it and potentially expose an archon to any Tremere who saw her . Putting one's security
in the hands of the Tremere rarely works fully to the satisfaction of the party employing them .
At the moment, several safeguards are in place . The Inner Circle and the justicars have declared
impersonating an archon a crime punishable by staking, torpor and even Final Death. It is hoped that the
threat of a gruesome end will be sufficient to dissuade many Kindred from making the attempt at all .
Some archons - usually those embarking on a specific investigation - are given a writ of
identification by their justicar . Obviously such letters can be stolen, but precautions have been taken to
prevent this . Each letter is sealed with the personal signet of the justicar . Within the letter are certain code
phrases, which the archon is required to memorize . Should the bearer of the letter be unable to quote the
code phrases, or should the seal have been broken before the prince (or sheriff, or whoever) opens it, the
individual is assumed to be an impostor. Only if the letter remains sealed and the bearer knows the proper
codes is his identity established .
Even this procedure is far from foolproof . Such letters must be replaced by the justicar each time they
are used, as the seal has now been cracked . Not every archon possesses such a writ ; in fact, fewer than half
possess one at any given time. Even those who do have such identification don't always carry it on them,
especially when working undercover, for fear that the letter will give them away should it be discovered .
It is extremely difficult to forge the justicars' sigils, or to open them and reseal them without any obvious
alteration ; the symbols are extremely intricate, and contain details too small to be seen without the use
of Auspex or a microscope . Nevertheless, a few attempts have succeeded in the past, proving that even
these precautions can be thwarted .
Until the Tremere prove successful in their labors (and trustworthiness), or some other solution
presents itself, the archons must continue to make do with what options they have, and hope that their
unlives never depend on instant identification .
CHAPTER Four: OF WITS AND WISDOM
93
V
prince's haven, but if you're an archon, it's not technically
a violation of Kindred Traditions . You'd best
have a good reason for it, though ; otherwise, you may
find yourself MIA the next time you pass through that
prince's domain . Some archons operate much like the
archetypal private detective, tailing the subject for
nights on end, recording her every move, until they
finally accumulate enough evidence to act .
Cardinal sin number one among undercover archons
is relying too heavily on Disciplines . The powers
possessed by the Kindred are mighty, but they are
fallible . It might seem easier to create a cover identity
by rearranging the memories of a local Kindred to
make her believe that you're an old acquaintance from
way back, but you'll think otherwise when that memory
implant wears off in the middle of a conversation with
the local scourge . Mundane deception, when it's skillful
and believable, is always a better option .
LONE WOLVES AND COTERIES
The Kindred are solitary creatures, lone predators who
stalk the night and find it nigh impossible to trust others of
their own kind. It is an instinct, a tendency shared to some
extent by even the most gregarious vampire .
Archons regularly buck this trend, not because they
find it easier to trust their fellows - they must, if
anything, be more suspicious than other vampires -but
because it's often the only way to survive . Few Kindred
have more enemies than an archon . From every elder
with his own agenda (read : all of them) to every vampire
not of the Camarilla, the justicars' agents meet hostile
stares and whispered threats wherever they go . Is it any
wonder they prefer to operate in numbers?
Strategic concerns influence the size and makeup
of archon coteries . These are not inviolable laws, and
are often adapted (or discarded outright) to fit the
circumstances, but they are common enough to be
considered the standard method of operation .
Lone Agents
Despite the inherent dangers, sometimes a single
archon really is the best response to a situation . Infiltration
of a cabal of conspirators or a Gehenna cult is
a difficult enough undertaking for an individual ; it
often proves impossible for more. Such a deep-cover
operative often stays under for months or years, slowly
gaining the trust of the organization and passing intelligence
to her justicar or coterie. Few archons enjoy
working like this, since there's no aid immediately
available should their cover be blown, but sometimes
there's no help for it .
A single archon is sometimes assigned bodyguard
duty. The archons don't make a practice of protecting
just anyone, but when an elder of particular status or
authority is threatened, the justicars are occasionally
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
94
asked to take a hand in her defense . Most such elders
have their own childer and ghouls protecting them as
well; the presence of an archon in such circumstances
is largely symbolic. The logic behind this is twofold.
First, it indicates to those who might threaten the
subject that the justicars and the Inner Circle have a
vested interest the subject's wellbeing and will take a
very dim view of anyone who harms him. Second, if
the threat is such that a single archon (and the elder's
own agents) cannot protect her, it would likely require
a sizable coterie to do a better job, and no Kindred
(well, very few) is important enough to drag an entire
coterie of archons away from their other duties .
An archon might also be assigned to bodyguard
duty when an important elder becomes convinced
that one of her own childer (or other protectors) is out
to kill her, but has not yet determined which one .
When a Kindred's own agents cannot be trusted (even
as much as normal), he has little place else to go but to
the archons . Most vampires don't have the clout to call
for such assistance, but those who do are taken very
seriously indeed. This is a particularly dangerous assignment,
as the archon does not know from whom the
threat will come, but the enemy almost certainly
knows that an archon-or at least an outsider of some
sort - has involved himself.
Finally, the justicars often assign a single agent to
missions that have a low probability of survival . Most
Kindred, even archons, lack the selfless sense of loyalty
that would inspire them to volunteer for suicide missions,
but occasionally a truly exceptional archon will
act for the greater good . In other cases, the justicars or
the archon's superiors simply don't tell her that the
mission is a one-way ticket . In either case, there's no
sense in wasting resources . While kamikaze coteries
aren't unheard of, the vast majority of such operations
are undertaken alone .
On the rare occasions that an archon actually
survives such an operation, he can probably expect
accolades and commendations from his superiors when
he returns-unless he was specifically intended to die
in the line of duty, in which case he may find things
growing unpleasant upon his unexpected arrival .
Partners
Archons operate in pairs only slightly less frequently
than in small coteries . Although two archons
are sometimes thrown together by a justicar due to
the particular requirements of the endeavor, more
often than not these partnerships are long-lasting
relationships . Some justicars and archons are made
uncomfortable by the notion that these pairs might
develop a stronger loyalty toward one another than
they have for their patron and their fellows, but the
remarkably successful operational record of such
pairings offsets this risk. Many of these partners become
at least semi-trusted allies or even lovers over the
course of their career, and those who survive long
enough to establish such a relationship have usually
learned to work exceptionally well together. More
than one pair of archons has taken the blood bond to
each other, though the practice is officially frowned
upon, and even forbidden outright by several justicars .
These "couples" are particularly effective, lacking even
the low-grade scheming that goes on between most
Kindred allies . At the same time, such archons have
been known to abandon an operation entirely should
something untoward happen to a partner .
Paired archons are assigned to many long-term
undercover operations. Two archons can follow up
leads that a single agent working alone cannot, and
each is able to support the other and watch her partner's
back should an investigation turn troublesome . At the
same time, it is far easier for partners to remain hidden
where a larger group would be uncovered and exposed .
Partnerships of this nature are also widely used in
a social capacity . A single archon is vulnerable, and is
often taken as an insult by particularly status-minded
princes or other elders . A sizable coterie, on the other
hand, is usually interpreted as a show of force, breeding
anger and resentment on the part of its hosts . The
assignment of a pair of archons to such endeavors is a
compromise between the two extremes . Occasionally,
one of the partnership will announce her presence
while the other remains undercover to ferret out information
and serve as hidden backup . Because Kindred
tend to clam up when an archon is around, however,
this technique isn't terribly effective ; more often than
not, in social circumstances, these archons either
operate openly or remain undercover as a pair .
Archons who are known to work in partnerships,
such as the team of Hamilton Cross and Tamara
Nayibe, sometimes exploit their reputation as inseparable
. Nayibe has, on occasion, deliberately gone to
social functions alone . By standing back and watching
as the paranoid locals try to kiss up to her while making
a mad scramble to locate her absent partner, she often
learns who has the most to hide .
Small Coteries
Defined for these purposes as any group numbering
three to five archons or servires, small coteries are the single
most common operational group of archons in non-warfare
environments . As with partnerships, some groups are
drawn together for specific purposes, but most act together
on a regular basis and have established working relationships,
if not better, among their members .
Coteries are deployed most frequently in circumstances
that require a combination of
techniques . Should both an undercover and a
CHAPTER FOUR: OF WETS AND WISDOM
ns
THE RULE OF THREE
Although the size of an archon coterie is
determined by a number of considerations, the
rule of thumb when dealing with internal investigations
is to assign a group of three archons, each
with her own specific part to play in the operation.
The first functions as both scout and information-
gatherer, and normally remains
undercover for the duration of the operation,
even should the other two archons reveal themselves
or be exposed . This first archon enters the
city nights or even weeks ahead of the others .
This is so she will already have intelligence to
pass to the others when they arrive, but also to
distance her from the others in the minds of any
observers who might have somehow detected the
archons' arrival . Her primary goal in the first
nights of the operation is to develop a feel for the
city itself: who the important elders are, who
holds the city's offices (assuming such information
wasn't provided before the mission began),
where the Elysiums are and so forth . This grants
the other two archons a working knowledge of
the city so that they don't automatically give
themselves away as outsiders .
The second member of the team is responsible
for coordinating the coterie's activities . An
expert in the twisted ways of the game of
prestation, his job is to ensure that the team
doesn't cause any more damage to the local
power structure than is absolutely necessary . Every
Kindred the team interacts with is analyzed in
terms of her position in the local arena and dealt
with accordingly. This member of the team is the
one most likely to reveal himself to those local
authorities who have been deemed "safe," in
order to arrange for support or information .
The last archon in the coterie is the team's
muscle. Once the other two have determined
who the "problem Kindred" is (or are), it is the
third archon's task to deal with the subject by
whatever means necessary . This doesn't mean
that the other two archons aren't capable of
holding their own should violence erupt, simply
that the third member of the team is the expert
at such things . Although hulking bruisers or
other "ass-kickers" often fill this position, the
smart coteries prefer an enforcer who has as
strong a grasp of the tactical aspects of combat
as he does the physical ones .
For more on how archon coteries are put
together, see Chapter Three .
military presence be needed, for example, an archon
coterie that contains specialists in both fields
is best suited to handling the situation . While
individual infiltrators or pairs are more appropriate
for long-term deep cover investigations, small
coteries are often employed for shorter operations
that have a smaller risk of discovery . "We've detected
a pattern of Sabbat behavior in and around
Denver that makes us think there may be a collaborator
somewhere in the city . Find out who it is and
what damage they've done," would probably be
assigned to a partnership, considering the potential
length of the assignment . On the other hand,
"The Ventrue primogen is up to something with
the local Setites . Find out what it is and put a stop
to it," is a shorter and more concise mission objective
and might well be assigned to a coterie .
Coteries are also useful when social concerns are
less of an issue and the justicars no longer care if the
locals take umbrage at a show of force . Should a
Camarilla elder or a prince be found guilty of violating
one too many Traditions, or otherwise need removal,
a coterie of archons is the answer (especially since most
such elders have the means to defend themselves -
lethally - from a single operative) . Should a prince
call for help from the archons, due to Lupine incursions,
an anarch uprising, a power play among the
primogen that has raged out of control or the like, a
coterie not only has sufficient might and skill to
handle the situation, it also makes the point that the
justicars are going to be taking a very close look at all
parties concerned .
Large Coteries
Also called "war coteries," these are groups of six
or more archons working together. Unlike the other
designations, these are almost never deployed in noncombat
situations (hence the name), and rarely consist
of long-term associations, having instead been assembled
for a specific operation . The vast majority of
war coteries have been deployed in the war with the
Sabbat, but they are occasionally assigned to battling
Lupines, hunting wights and even eliminating
Camarilla elders gone rogue .
Even during wartime, such massive coteries convene
rarely . Considering that a single war coterie can
account for at least an appreciable minority, and
possibly over 10 percent, of all active archons (depending
on which estimates are accurate), the justicars
are loath to put so many agents together as one large
target unless circumstances permit no other solution .
Most of the time, operations that could be handled by
a war coterie are instead given to more numerous
smaller groups, reinforced with a large number of
servires and ghouls .
Some justicars, such as Madam Guil, regularly travel
with an enormous entourage of archons. This could
technically be defined as a large coterie, though this is
perhaps a misleading designation for such a group, as
"coterie" normally implies a group of relative equals .
LAYING POLITICS
Many archons have a preference for subtlety and
manipulation that belies other Kindred's perceptions
of them as nothing more than a violent brute squad . It's
true that some play the game for their own reasons, but
many archons develop their political acumen in order
to better serve the needs of the Camarilla . Nobody
wants a gunfight in the streets, much less a spectacle of
dueling Disciplines . If a dangerous prince or renegade
elder can have his power base kicked out from under
him without a single violent confrontation, it's safer
for the archons, the local Kindred, the Masquerade
and the city in general .
That's worth emphasizing . Unless they require a
public sentencing in order to make a point to others,
archons almost always prefer to weaken a rogue from
behind the scenes and let the elder's rivals finish the
job of taking her out. A domain is generally far more
stable if it appears that the status quo was shaken by
locals acting alone, whereas an elder who obviously
gained his authority with outside aid is just asking to
have his newfound position attacked the instant the
archons turn their backs .
More important than the stability of the domain,
at least in their own eyes, is the safety and reputation
of the archons themselves . For all that they supposedly
have the authority of the justicars behind them,
THE Boss I5 WATCHING
Most archons work autonomously . They have little regular contact with their justicar, save when they're
given or debriefed on specific assignments . Some justicars don't even do this; they simply wind up their
archons, tell them to "solve problems," and let them go . Some archons, however, receive the distinct honor
and pleasure of working side-by-side with the justicar herself .
This arrangement definitely has its advantages . First and foremost, the problems normally associated
with identification are completely eliminated . What need have you for a letter of credentials when the
justicar is standing five feet behind you? The job is also substantially safer in many respects . Most justicars
are hesitant to put themselves in the midst of a violent situation, and elders who would be willing to
eliminate an inconvenient archon under normal circumstances think twice before acting with a justicar on
the scene. For an archon with political ambitions, the opportunities to meet elders who seek to curry favor
with the justicar are endless .
The majority of archons feel, however, that the drawbacks far outweigh the perks . Archons in a justicar's
entourage can expect to be assigned the most menial tasks . Sure, your job is to investigate the prince's
underlings while the justicar talks shop with "his Highness," but while you're gone, would you be so good
as to fetch the paper, arrange for a limo, give this note to the Brujah whip and bring up a juicy mortal and
a pot of coffee to flavor him with?
Few firefights or brawls may erupt in the presence of a justicar, but you're expected to deal with any that
do - and to protect your exalted patron in the process . It's bad enough being an archon knowing that every
other Kindred is gunning for you . Try doing it while you've got to protect someone else at the same time.
God help you if you don't take that bullet, knife, stake or whatever that was aimed at the justicar - your
"failure" to protect her may well cause you a lot more pain and anguish than you'd have suffered if you'd just
thrown yourself in front of the assault .
You can also forget working undercover in the future, at least in this part of the world . The Kindred are
always looking for ways to curry favor with those in power . That means your patron, and that means they're
going to be paying very close attention to you, in the hopes that you can serve as a conduit to your boss . Every
elder within a hundred miles knows your face now. Ain't fame a bitch?
Most troubling is the fact that your boss is watching over your shoulder, keeping very close track of your
activities . You can probably expect to have every little mistake dragged out and examined with a microscope,
whereas all but the most extraordinary successes will be dismissed as simply part of the job and unworthy of
extra attention . The most impressive accomplishments will be claimed by, and credited to, the justicar, but
guess who shoulders the burden for the failures? An archon has tremendous difficulty advancing her position
in terms of record or reputation while working in the shadow of a justicar . Considering the ambition of most
Kindred with sufficient strength of will and purpose to become archons, this quickly becomes an intolerable
situation . Unfortunately, it's also nearly impossible to get out of.
CHAPTER FOUR: OF WITS AND WISDOM
97
V
t
archons learn quickly that they cannot simply declare
an elder guilty of wrongdoing and expect her to
meekly submit to judgment (though neonates and
ancillae are often another matter) . Unless an archon
has overwhelming evidence of an elder's crimes - a
rare circumstance indeed, considering how carefully
most scheming Kindred cover their tracks-he's got
to be a lot more circumspect in his efforts to remove
her from power.
Some would-be politicos among the archons actually
look forward to these internal investigations .
Any assignment that allows them to dig through the
sordid pasts and schemes of a city's elders justifies
their own position . By learning where the bodies are
buried, these archons grant themselves carte blanche
to deal with these Kindred as they see fit . Many an
elder has been ousted from his position of power on
the grounds that he was a "traitor" to the sect, and
replaced with someone the archon found less objectionable
. Many more have been permitted to retain
their authority, but only at the price of doing the
archon the occasional favor . Blackmail is no less a
weapon in the hands of the Camarilla's social hierarchy
than in any other Kindred's .
STIRRING THE POT
Particularly enterprising archons, and even
the justicars, have been known to deliberately
stir up trouble in a prince's domain in order to
force the local Kindred to cry for help . This
allows the archons to sweep in, doing favors and
collecting boons from the prince and the
primogen, as well as digging up whatever secrets
they can find . More than one prince has become
a veritable puppet dancing to an archon's (or
j justicar's) whim because she needed aid in quelling
troubles the archons themselves instigated .
It's a fine line to walk. Too little pressure and
the prince may be able to handle the situation
without outside aid, in which case the archon has
wasted precious time and resources that could
have been better used elsewhere . Too much, and
the upheaval spins out of the archon's control,
mushrooming from a manufactured catastrophe
into one that's all too real. Princes have been
toppled, entire regions destabilized and cities
very nearly lost to the Sabbat when such power
plays have gone awry .
The justicars and Inner Circle frown on such
agitation (unless they've ordered it), and punish
the archons responsible when they're caught -
unless the situation becomes better under the
archon's influence, of course .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
98
How, then, does an archon - an outsider -
weaken or destroy an elder's influence in his home
city? While plenty of techniques are available to
Kindred who seek to build their own clout and steal
power from their fellows, most of these are lengthy,
painstaking processes, and archons rarely have the
time for them .
The wise archon cultivates a relationship with her
target's rivals . The archon may not have an established
base of power in her quarry's home town, but surely
other Kindred do, Kindred who wouldn't be averse to
helping the archon out in exchange for a piece of the
deposed elder's pie . This strategy provides the added
benefit of showing the archon who else holds the
power in the city, information that will become useful
in the future should the new power structure require
policing in its turn .
Another favored tactic is to hinder the target and
let his rivals take him down without letting anyone
know there's an archon in town. More than one elder
has been approached with offers of aid from an
anonymous stranger, and some have even found their
own resources augmented or enhanced without ever
meeting the responsible parties . Personnel suddenly
have access to information, equipment or even weaponry
they could not previously obtain, and balky
boards of directors and city officials suddenly begin
cooperating. At the same instant, the target discovers
that his haven has been condemned and his favorite
ghouls arrested for possession of child porn and assaulting
a police officer . After several weeks of this,
all but the most powerful of elders has usually fallen
in a feeding frenzy of his peers, and while some of
those involved may harbor suspicions, no one will
ever be able to say with certainty that the archons
were involved at all .
When it comes down to the wire, though,
archons are willing to ditch the subtle approach
and engage in overt practices that native Kindred
simply wouldn't condone- A rival seeking to claim
the prince's influence over the local steel industry
might take years inserting her own pawns into the
industry's lower echelons and working them upward,
slowly undermining the prince's influence .
An archon whose only concern is weakening the
prince enough to facilitate her removal and replacement
with someone more sympathetic to the
archon's own desires might simply eliminate the
prince's industry contacts in a series of "accidents ."
It's messy, and it does bad things to one's Humanity,
but it is effective, and if it leaves the other
elders to pick up the pieces, so what? The target is
weakened, the objective is accomplished and the
Masquerade wasn't threatened .
GET WITH THE TIMES
One edge the archons have been developing over
other Kindred of comparable age is their growing use of
modern technology. Most elders and even some ancillae
have difficulty keeping up with the whirlwind progress
of the past decades . Some ancients aren't comfortable
dialing a phone, much less punching up records on the
Internet or tracking a rival with a planted transmitter
and a GPS locator .
Archons don't inherently find high tech any
more comprehensible, but the justicars and praetors
are now suggesting that their agents become familiar
with the options the modern era has to offer . Those
who have proven adaptable enough to overcome
their reluctance have swung to the opposite end of
the spectrum and become fanatics about technology.
Many Kindred rogues have been discovered and dealt
with because they were unable or unwilling to take
modern methods of detection into account . Ancients
who carefully examine every room in their haven
with Auspex, searching for Obfuscated spies or animal
scouts, haven't the first notion of how to detect
an electronic bug . Elders who have finally been
talked into "modernizing" by their childer allow the
young ones to start filing their records in a database,
unaware that archon-employed hackers are just waiting
to break into the system and copy every file in
sight . Archons have even taken to analyzing patterns
of behavior among both Camarilla elders and outside
enemies using statistical databases and logarithmic
software, with a remarkable degree of success . Among
those archons and justicars with contacts at the
highest levels of government, an effort is currently
under way to acquire steady access to satellite communications
and surveillance capability, though these
endeavors have so far found only limited success .
The Ancients' fear of technology leaves them
susceptible to other tricks as well . The archon Kirsten
Bellamy once obtained a complete confession of guilt
from an elder diablerist recently awakened from torpor
by convincing him that the device she held in her
hand was able to read his thoughts and determine if he
was lying to her. It was actually a Palm Pilot .
The archons have another, unspoken reason for
their interest in mastering new technologies . The
Sabbat is made up primarily of young vampires . If the
archons are to serve as the front line of defense against
the Black Hand, they'd better be familiar with the
same techniques and equipment .
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
Between their battles with the Sabbat and their
political maneuvering, the fact that archons are also
police and the enforcers of the social order is often
CHAPTER FOUR OF WITS AND WISDOM
99
neglected . While investigation of the Kindred must
often be conducted in secret, and while many miscreants
must be brought down subtly and quietly, archons
do have the power-and sometimes even the opportunity
- to hand down a sentence and openly carry it out .
Despite the paranoid whispers of younger Kindred,
archons do not consider every infraction to be a
capital offense, and they are largely unconcerned with
petty indiscretions. Once they have become involved,
once the prince has proven that he and his sheriff
aren't up to the task (or that they themselves are the
problem), the archons aren't the sort to let violators off
with a slap on the wrist .
When an archon has gathered sufficient evidence
of a vampire's guilt, she has several options . The
definition of "sufficient" changes based on the archon
and on the status of the criminal in question, of course .
Most Kindred of no real status are apprehended by the
archon - often with the local sheriff in tow, so that
the prince remains apprised of what's happening in her
city - and punishment is administered immediately .
Those who hold substantial influence in their domain
are often abducted and taken elsewhere for sentencing,
under the assumption that it's unsafe for an archon
to deal with the Kindred on his home turf.
Although the Kindred do not hold trials as mortals
use the term, some judicial decisions are above the
archons' heads . When an archon cannot gather sufficient
evidence to simply decide unilaterally on a
course of action, or when the accused is a Kindred of
particularly high status or influence, the matter is
handed up to a justicar for a decision . On occasion the
accused is so important or powerful that even a justicar
is reluctant to make a judgment on her own . These
matters are normally brought before a conclave of as
many justicars and elders as are conveniently available
. When matters reach this point, the accused is
rarely acquitted, if only because the attendees are
angry at having been inconvenienced . At the same
time, the punishment meted out is often determined
by the boons and favors the criminal can call due,
rather than by the crime or the evidence presented .
Archons hate it when matters progress to this point .
An elder who has been dragged into the spotlight and
accused of a crime (and survives) almost certainly
develops eternal enmity for the archon responsible,
and more than one archon has chosen to let a suspected
criminal of sufficient status go free rather than
face the consequences of an unfavorable verdict .
FALSE EVIDENCE
Archons who are convinced of a Kindred's guilt
but are unable to find sufficient evidence to prove it are
in a bit of a quandary . For most neonates and ancillae,
proof is largely unnecessary ; if the archon declares her
guilty, she's guilty . For those with a bit more status,
however, an archon who acts without proof is asking
for all sorts of trouble . Some archons, either convinced
of the righteousness of their cause or working for their
own benefit, are not above manufacturing such evidence
when they can't find the real thing .
This evidence can take many forms . Incriminating
items-perhaps the possessions of a deceased Kindred,
a "message from the Sabbat" or a meticulous written
record of the prince's schedule and Elysium security -
can be planted in a suspect's haven . Witnesses can be
coerced or bribed into making false claims . Sometimes
their memories can even be altered to back those claims
up, though this is an exceptionally risky proposition,
especially as the memories will probably sort themselves
out in the future . More than one witness has perished
"accidentally" not long after giving altered testimony .
Archons experienced a brief period of fascination with
computer alteration of videotape, but this practice has
faded as the Inner Circle and other elders become aware
that such things are possible .
Many archons, convinced that they act for the
greater good, plant such evidence to ensure the punishment
of a Kindred they believe to be guilty . Some
less scrupulous archons have been known to use similar
techniques to dispose of those against whom they have
a personal grudge, and a few have even collaborated
with a lawbreaker to frame an innocent, in exchange
for favors later on .
As with so many other archon infractions, the
justicars and the Inner Circle officially decry this
practice - but are willing to look the other way if it
actually does some good .
SENTENCING
No formal process exists for determining which
punishment fits which crime . As mentioned above,
punishment is often determined by the status of the
accused, rather than the infraction . That said, several
punishments are commonly inflicted by the justicars and
the archons, to varying degrees . Many of them are handed
down together, such as Final Death after torture .
In the past, exile from Camarilla communities was
a valid form of punishment, as few Kindred survived
long wandering in Lupine-infested wilderness . This
practice has been abandoned in the modern nights,
however, as it has become nearly impossible to prevent
an individual from entering even a specific city, let
alone any Camarilla territory . It also had a nasty
tendency to drive the exile over to the Sabbat .
Loss of Title and Status
While archons don't have the authority to strip a
Kindred of his title outright, the justicars have been
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
100
known to do just that . Princes, primogen and others
aren't assigned their position by the Camarilla, and
there's theoretically no reason why one should step
down just because she's been ordered to do so . However,
once other Kindred learn that a prince is no
longer supported by the Camarilla - that she has, in
fact, been ordered to abdicate by the justicars themselves
- she becomes fair game and can expect to be
overthrown in uncommonly short order . Most of them
choose to step down gracefully when ordered and save
themselves the aggravation, not to mention possible
bodily harm .
Loss of status is a simple matter . The mere fact that
a Kindred is under investigation or sentencing by
archons is often enough to inspire her allies to drop her
like a live grenade. It is, in fact, almost impossible for
a Kindred to suffer any form of sentencing without also
suffering a loss of status .
Staking
Although normally used as a means of apprehension
and transport rather than punishment, staking is
occasionally the sentence mandated for a vampire's
crimes. The closest equivalent the Kindred have to
prison terms, it is usually reserved for those who must
be removed from a given environment or situation, but
who the justicars feel might be useful in the future . An
elder whose bid for princedom nearly allowed a Sabbat
Crusade to take the city, for instance, might be staked
for several decades to allow the city to recover, then
released when the justicars felt her knowledge and
experience might prove useful in pacifying a similar
situation elsewhere . Still, temporary incarceration or
even paralysis means little to the undead, so staking
serves punitive purposes only rarely .
Torture
Torture is not commonly used as a means of
interrogation. Most archons are well aware that information
obtained in this manner is often suspect and
inaccurate, and they prefer the more reliable (and
faster) methods provided by certain Disciplines . The
Camarilla is unabashedly brutal when it comes to
punishing transgressors, though, and often wreaks
bloody and painful retribution on its renegades .
The Kindred, of course, can stand up to a great deal
more damage and pain than mortals, so archons have
become truly creative with their methods . Some favored
techniques include, but are hardly limited, to :
•
Slow cutting with blades heated to the point
where they cause aggravated damage .
•
Starvation nearly to the point of frenzy, followed
by the delivery of blood heated to near boiling .
•
Staking, followed by the application of swarms of
stinging or biting insects .
• Staking, followed by the lighting of a nearby flame .
The fire isn't close enough to burn, but the Kindred suffers
severe emotional trauma as the Rotschreck is evoked
despite the vampire's inability to move .
•
Force-feeding of solid foods or other, even less
appetizing substances .
Some particularly malicious archons have been
known to blood-bond the criminal before inflicting
other torments, taking sadistic glee in the added emotional
pain as the victim is tormented by his "love ."
Final Death
The ultimate punishment for any Kindred, sentences
of Final Death are becoming more frequent as
the Camarilla, panicked by the events of recent
years, seeks to crush even the faintest embers of
rebellion within its childer . Execution is often preceded
by various tortures, and is normally carried
out by staking a vampire and leaving her exposed for
the sun (always under the watchful eyes of ghoul
servants to prevent any last-minute rescues on the
part of the criminal's allies) . Some Kindred deemed
too dangerous to risk waiting until dawn are instead
beheaded. Vampires are rarely executed by fire, as
the risk of the flames burning out of control is one
that most archons or other Kindred are unwilling to
take . Those few who do prefer fire as a means of
capital punishment often rely on incinerators and
other confined sources of flame .
The Gulag
Camarilla urban legends speak of an underground
bunker, or several such installations located throughout
the world . Bomb shelters from the Cold War,
subbasements of defunct corporations, Nosferatu-constructed
chambers-the precise nature of the structure
varies from location to location and rumor to rumor . If
anyone knows the truth of these places, they aren't
talking . They're probably dead, anyway .
These so-called Gulags are, quite literally, the
prisons of the Damned . Archons supposedly need
someplace to store the accused while a conclave is
called and assembled, to place those who have been
sentenced to years of stake-induced paralysis, to stash
prisoners of war until they can be interrogated, to carry
out the tortures that are so often part of the punishment
for the most severe infractions . Here, in these
underground dungeons, Kindred lie in rows, chained
and staked, awaiting their sentencing, their torture or
their execution .
These legends exaggerate, obviously. Certainly,
not enough criminals await judgment or punishment
at any given time to account for "rows" of Kindred .
When they can be bothered to address the issue at all,
archons deny the existence of the Gulags vigorously .
CHAPTER FOUR: OF WITS AND WISDOM
1 0 1
t
More often their response is limited to a nasty glare,
occasionally followed by a few scribbled comments in
a notebook.
Still the legend survives - and the archons do
have to put the accused somewhere, don't they?
ASSASSINATION
Sometimes the system won't work . Some elders
have too much pull to ever be sentenced and punished .
Others are too well protected or too clever, leaving no
evidence of wrongdoing behind . Still others pose so
great a threat that they must be dealt with immediately,
regardless of consequences .
Assassination of a Camarilla Kindred is not something
archons undertake lightly, but they acknowledge
that it is sometimes the only alternative . Justicars
prefer to assign such duties to elder archons who have
proven their loyalty, their understanding of the greater
good and their ability to keep their mouths shut . If the
target has been the subject of recent investigation,
however, the investigating archon may be assigned the
task of taking her out, due to her knowledge of the
subject's habits and precautions .
Although most Kindred assume that archons occasionally
take such actions, it would be bad form to
leave any evidence to that effect . Because it is almost
impossible to kill a powerful vampire without leaving
some evidence - even if the body crumbles, some
Kindred will inevitably notice the target's disappearance-
archons prefer to arrange false evidence at the
scene of a kill, suggesting that outside parties are
responsible . The Sabbat make favored scapegoats, but
the Setites, the Assamites, Lupines, hunters and even
organized crime have all been credited with assassinations
carried out by archons .
DISAVOWAL
Since justicars do not report their archons' identities
or activities to any higher authority, it is impossible
to link an archon to the justicar she claims to serve if
the justicar disavows knowledge of the archon . Many
justicars operate this way regularly, choosing new and
therefore unknown archons for dangerous or ethically
questionable tasks . Normally the archon agrees to
cooperate, with full knowledge that he will be cut off
if he's caught or discovered, because of the commensurate
rewards promised him upon successful completion
of the mission . On occasion, however, an archon will
attempt to call her justicar for aid, or to have a skeptical
prince contact the justicar to confirm the archon's
identity, only to be shocked by a categorical denial .
Kindred have gone to their Final Deaths claiming to be
archons, despite the insistence of the justicar that she's
"never met the deluded whelp ." Justicars don't do this
often-leaving your elite out to hang is not a good way
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
102
to build loyalty - but the option is there, should they
need to exercise it . These "secret agents" are most
often employed for internal assassinations, although
their usefulness is not restricted to such matters .
WAR
Some Kindred would argue that external threats to
the Camarilla are significantly more dangerous than
those that come from within, despite the fact that the
archons must deal with them far less frequently .
Whether or not that's an accurate assessment is certainly
debatable, but there can be no argument that
the archons are often the only bastion against the
Sabbat hordes (or other enemies, such as Lupines or
even the independent clans).
For all that they are "the first line of defense," an
archon's wartime duties are not limited to battling on
the front lines . In fact, archons go toe-to-toe with
Sabbat Crusaders relatively rarely . Any Lick with Feral
Claws or a cheap shotgun can do that . No, archons are
far more useful in roles other than foot soldier, and they
have tasks that go above and beyond "Kill the first
Kindred you see who doesn't look like a local ."
COMMAND AND CONTROL
Although these duties occasionally fall to another
elder, or even to a justicar, archons most frequently
shoulder the burden of command during war . Whether
coordinating the defense of a city or the taking of one,
the authority of an archon is - hypothetically -
absolute in these matters . Some princes have substantial
battlefield experience, but on the whole very few
Kindred possess the knowledge that archons must
develop if they are to survive their chosen career .
Many Licks were surprised to learn that Theo Bell, an
archon, was made praetor during the taking of New
York; they assumed one of the present justicars would
lead so vital an operation . Even the justicars, though,
make a practice of avoiding combat where possible -
that's why they have archons in the first place - and
thus do not develop the same martial and tactical skills
(though those justicars who come from the ranks of
archons are certainly likely to possess such abilities) .
This position of command may or may not be a
formal one . When the Camarilla launches one of its
rare assaults on a Sabbat stronghold, an archon is
almost certainly placed in command, formally and
officially, by a justicar or by the Inner Circle . Such
decrees are rarely challenged, as no preexisting power
structure is in place . The praetor is responsible for
coordinating all forces engaged in the war effort, from
other archons and war coteries of younger Kindred to
mortal police and city workers who have their own
parts to play in a conflict far larger than they can be
allowed to comprehend . The praetor or commander of
an operation rarely takes the field himself, at least at
the beginning of the battle, precisely because of his
responsibilities ; few Kindred are indispensable in an
operation of this sort, but the one who runs the show
and has the best grasp of the strategy involved cannot
be spared .
It would seem to make sense that an archon would
be placed in charge of the defense of a city against the
Sabbat as well . Archons' travels and experiences make
them expert in, or at least familiar with, a wide range
of Sabbat tactics, knowledge that can be applied to
specific incursions . Even a prince whose domain sits
on the edge of Black Hand territory likely has less
experience in such matters . Yet more than one city has
fallen because the archon and the prince couldn't get
straight which of them was actually in command .
Princes who cry for help against the Sabbat, and
are sufficiently fortunate (or strategically located) to
receive it, are often startled that the archons don't
immediately take to the streets and begin shooting .
Some who were all too eager for outside aid suddenly
balk when confronted by the necessity of giving up the
least bit of their own authority . It isn't even that the
prince feels she has more skill at tactics and strategy
(though some do indeed feel that way), it's simply that
she cannot get past her instinctive desire to hold
tightly to the power she's accumulated and see the
larger picture .
Some archons make the best of such situations and
function as military advisors . If the prince is willing to
accept good advice when he hears it, this can actually
work, though it slows down the process by adding
another link to the chain of command and the communication
of orders . Archons serve as
seconds-in-command under these circumstances, but
they are expected to step in and take over as military
commander should something happen to the prince .
This can be problematic, since the archon doesn't
necessarily have a solid understanding of the locals and
the resources available to her . Archons prefer, then, to
take command from the get-go, letting the prince
advise them, rather than the other way around.
Things are clearer when the city is part of a larger
coordinated defense, as was seen recently in the war on
the East Coast. When the Camarilla has clearly taken
a hand and mandated that a specific Kindred -
justicar, archon or otherwise - is in command, most
princes are willing, if not happy, to step aside . Even in
these circumstances, some princes have been known
to cause problems, giving their underlings orders that
conflict with the archon's, and basically making royal
pains of themselves.
Some archons attempt to get official word from
their justicar, demanding that the locals relinquish
"N epowp_
CHAPTER FOUR: OF WITS AND WISDOM
103
command, but this takes time that most besieged
cities don't have .
Archons have developed several procedures for
dealing with problem princes in these situations . One
is simply to go over the protesting elder's head . Sheriffs,
scourges and local Kindred are normally reluctant
to take an outsider's orders, but those wise enough to
realize they're about to be swarmed by the Sabbat
unless something is done often choose to follow the
archon now and let him deal with the consequences .
The second option is to pull out and let the prince
deal with the incursion on her own, until it becomes
very clear that she cannot do so . A prince who has to
call for help again tends to be far more cooperative the
second time around . The risk here is that the city will
fall in the interim, so this approach is taken only with
areas that are not tactically vital to the war effort .
The final option is to remove the prince entirely
(see "War Crimes" below for more on how this might
be accomplished) . There's obviously no time to determine
who the new prince is in the midst of a Crusade,
and the archon can take over as prince pro tempore
fairly easily.
Playing Defense
While the Camarilla's offensive tactics and battlefield
procedures are already well documented in Nights
of Prophecy and Midnight Siege, the archons have
developed several additional strategies used in defending
a city from Sabbat Crusades .
The Lure
This technique is the descendant of an ancient
cavalry tactic, in which a portion of a force would stage
a false retreat, drawing the enemy out and rendering
him vulnerable to attacks from the flank . The archons
have taken this to the next logical step .
When this operation is initiated, every local vampire
is sent into hiding. Those who won't cooperate are staked
and hidden away, or executed if time permits no other
solution. Several Kindred flee the city via routes that are
almost certainly under observation ; if Nosferatu or other
Kindred skilled at Obfuscate are present, these same
vampires may flee the city multiple times, giving the
impression of a mass exodus . It quickly begins to appear to
Sabbat scouts that the Camarilla has abandoned the city,
rather than go down fighting . If the archons and locals are
fortunate, the Sabbat drops its guard as it moves in to
claim its new domain, allowing the hidden Camarilla
Kindred the element of surprise when they launch a
coordinated strike some few nights later .
The lure is not a foolproof tactic ; something
can go wrong at almost every step along the way . It
is a desperation tactic, one undertaken only when
all other options are exhausted . It works more
L
often than not, but only just . The Sabbat might
maintain a state of wariness as it moves in ; the
incoming force might prove too large for even a
surprise assault; the Sabbat might reinforce its
position faster than expected ; a hidden Kindred
might be spotted if she's forced to go out to feed .
It's no wonder that princes hesitate to risk their
domains in such a manner, and even archons are
reluctant to undertake so risky an endeavor .
Salting the Earth
If the Camarilla is forced to abandon a city, they're
going to ensure that the enemy gets as little use from it
as possible . Archons who realize that a city is about to
be lost sometimes make an effort to locate the nearest
Lupine population . This isn't always easy, but a wellinformed
sheriff or scourge often knows such details . If
werewolves are located, the departing archon launches
a sudden strike against a few of them, wounding as
many as possible with minimal loss of unlife . The
archon then quickly flees the city, content in the
knowledge that the Lupines will likely strike back
against their hated enemies . Of course, the town
"Leeches" are Sabbat now, but most werewolves can't
tell the difference . . . .
If the archons have information identifying specific
Sabbat involved in the Crusade, they pass names
and faces along to contacts the departing Kindred
leave behind in city offices and the police . The Sabbat
expects the Camarilla to use mortal authorities against
them, but not when the Camarilla has already fled the
city. A Sabbat vampire whose haven is raided by a
SWAT team at two in the afternoon - in a city she
thought was sect territory - is likely to be caught
completely by surprise .
THE STRANGE CASE OF CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
The archons Hamilton Cross and Tamara Nayibe are credited with helping prevent the fall of Charlotte
during the recent Sabbat offensive, and they did it by making the Sabbat think they'd already won .
Despite the military coordination evident in the taking of the Eastern Seaboard, the Sabbat still
operated predominantly as individual packs . When Charlotte was threatened by the outer edge of the
Sabbat advance, Cross and Nayibe gambled that the packs were not in constant communication with
their superiors . Mere nights before the Sabbat would have swarmed over Charlotte, the two archons,
working with a reluctant prince, firebombed several buildings, including a large wing of the Museum
of Art, arranged via the sheriff's contacts for the local gangs to go to war with one another and even
dug up a dozen graves in cemeteries near the edge of town . The first Sabbat packs to arrive saw the state
of the city and the evidence of "war," assumed another pack had reached the city first and decided to
move on . By the time the Sabbat command heard of what happened and realized the mistake, the
offensive had slowed and Charlotte had been reinforced sufficiently that taking the city wouldn't have
been worth the effort .
While the Sabbat know they were hoodwinked somewhere along the line, they may not have pieced
together exactly what happened . Cross and Nayibe hope to be able to use the tactic again, should
circumstances call for it .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
1 04
I
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE
Archons are rarely responsible for spying on the
enemy. As described above and in Chapter One, the
intelligence a captured archon could disclose to the
Sabbat makes it dangerous to use them as spies ; less
knowledgeable Kindred are preferred . Still, some
doppelgangers have sufficient skill to remain in Sabbat
territory undetected, and several East Coast territories
are occupied by hidden archons, chosen because of
their ability not only to remain hidden, but also to
battle their way free if they are discovered .
An archon's involvement with intelligence, therefore,
is normally limited to extracting secrets from captured
Sabbat, and working newly discovered information into
her battle plans . Interrogations rarely take the form of
torture, though it does happen occasionally. Archons
prefer to drag the information out via the use of Disciplines,
one of the few times they rely on such heavy-handed
techniques . Auspex is particularly useful with its ability to
detect lies, read objects or even minds . The uses of
Dominate are obvious, and Presence is sometimes sufficient
to command obedience as well . If time allows,
archons sometimes force blood bonds on their prisoners .
The Vaulderie may break blood bonds well enough, but
it doesn't prevent new ones . Circumstances allow for this
last technique only infrequently, however .
Some archons have learned to take advantage of
the Vaulderie between packmates . While a Sabbat
vampire rarely breaks quickly under torture, some with
particularly strong Vinculi will talk if forced to observe
the torment of a companion . This isn't universally
reliable, as the Vinculum isn't necessarily stronger
than a Sabbat vampire's loyalty to the sect, but it isn't
unheard of either.
WAR CRIMES
An archon's duties during war don't replace her
other responsibilities. Even with battle raging in the
next city, an archon must still keep the peace in this
one, and the fact that the Sabbat are howling at the
gates doesn't mean that the prince can get away with
violating the Traditions (beyond a certain point, anyway)
. Some might think it would prove difficult, if not
impossible, to carry on normally during war, but the
archons have found ways to turn the chaos of the
conflict to their advantage .
War is the perfect time to remove a dangerous
Kindred from power. Archons have already accepted
the occasional need to assassinate powerful elders, and
they normally blame such activities on the Sabbat
anyway. How much easier and more believable to do
such a thing when everyone knows the Black Hand is in
the area? Elders, primogen and even princes have "tragically
fallen to the enemy" under unusual circumstances .
Archons also make use of the chaos to flush out
Sabbat collaborators . Should an archon be aware that
a city is on the verge of falling because of the efforts of
an enemy agent, she may declare the city lost before
the issue is actually decided . By staying in the shadows
and spying on the elders as they're (supposedly) preparing
to depart, the archon may be able to determine
which of the elders is acting uncharacteristically or is
clearly in communication with the enemy. Sometimes
the archon calls off the evacuation once the traitor has
been discovered, but since the elders are already in
motion, many archons take the opportunity to begin
preparations for the lure tactic described above .
AFTERMATH
When the smoke has cleared and the dust settled,
the work is far from over even if the Camarilla maintained
the domain. Odds are good that there's a
substantial amount of Masquerade-repair going on,
and the carnage probably left several gaps in the city's
power structure. Many ambitious Kindred see this as
the perfect time to make a grab for those empty
positions, and it falls to the archons to see that they
don't get out of hand .
Normally, of course, the archons could care less
who makes a bid for what position, so long as they don't
make waves doing so . In the aftermath of a Crusade,
however, a domain is particularly unstable, and even
the usual degree of intrigue and cold war might be
enough to finish the job the Sabbat started . Rather
than risk losing the city they've fought so hard to keep,
many archons simply assign empty positions to surviving
Kindred who seem suited for the job.
It's questionable as to whether an archon has the
authority to do this even under wartime conditions,
CHAPTER FOUR: OF WITS AND WISDOM
105
let alone after the shooting has stopped . Most Kindred
go along with the dictates, if only to keep
things on an even keel while the archon remains in
town. Once he's been called away to other duties,
however, all bets are off. If the archon chose well
and picked someone able to hold onto her new
position, the assignment becomes permanent (or as
permanent as such things ever are) . If not, the new
title is quickly wrested away by someone else . It
matters little to the archon, so long as the process
runs smoothly . Then again, that's their credo for
everything, isn't it?
TEMPLARS
AND INQUISITORS
A single military organization or police force
such as the archons smacks highly of totalitarianism.
It's all fine and dandy for the Camarilla to make
use of such heavy-handed methods, but the Sabbat
is a lot less regimented and allows for a lot more
personal freedom - or at least it wants to look that
way. The Sword of Caine, then, spreads these duties
and responsibilities around, putting all the power in
the hands of no one organization . Templars and
Inquisitors, each with their own purpose and their
own agenda, handle the distasteful duties of enforcing
the laws of the Sabbat and ensuring that the sect
remains free from infiltration by the Antediluvians'
slaves and suck-ups .
As free as possible, anyway, which does not mean
even remotely the same thing .
Although their stated purposes are quite different
- the templars often serve the needs of specific
archbishops or prisci, whereas the Inquisitors, in their
crusade against heresy, ostensibly serve the sect as a
whole - many of their tactics and techniques are
quite similar. Where those procedures differ, those
discrepancies are explained below . Any procedure
that does not specify one or the other applies equally
to both groups .
THE NAME GAME
It gets a little repetitive to constantly say
"templars and Inquisitors do this" and "templars
and Inquisitors do that ." Thus, since "Caine's
Anointed" has already been put forth as an alternate
title for these agents of the Sabbat, we use
the term "Anointed" to mean "templar and/or
Inquisitor" whenever a concept, duty or strategy
applies to both . Only when referring specifically
to one or the other are specific titles used .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
106
INTERNAL AFFAIRS
The Sabbat would have its enemies - and, indeed,
its members-believe that the noble purpose of
the sect and the freedoms it supposedly offers are
enough to inspire near-universal loyalty among its
members. They maintain that the Inquisition exists
only to root out those who are corrupted by a greater,
outside evil, and that those threats the templars guard
against come almost solely from external agencies
(such as the Camarilla) and the occasional rogue
element among those Sabbat vampires too stupid to
know better.
The truth is that the Sabbat is no less a hotbed
of scheming and intrigue than the Camarilla, and
the sect has its own share of traitors and renegades .
The Anointed must to deal with enemies from
within their own ranks no less frequently than the
archons, and often at greater personal risk, for they
have no justicars and no Inner Council to back
them up. Those who keep order within the Sword of
Caine learn very quickly to rely on their own
strengths and abilities, since these, and nothing
else, often stand between them and Final Death at
the fangs of fellow Sabbat .
That said, the sorts of intrigues in which a templar
is likely to find herself involved differ from those that
require the attention of an Inquisitor . Most of the
time, templars act under orders from or at least in the
presumed best interests of a superior . A cardinal, a
bishop, or other powerful Sabbat vampire may have his
own cadre of templars (or paladins) at his beck and
call. Should he suspect that one of his rivals plots
against him, he may well assign one or more of those
agents to look into it, but anything that does not
concern his welfare directly is unlikely to draw the
interest of his templars . Inquisitors, however, turn up
whenever and wherever they feel the need . The slightest
hint of heresy - a far broader term than most
Sabbat realize- draws one of the Red Robes like the
scent of blood. Inquisitors are all too happy to respond
to almost any summons, even from the lowest of
neonates, for heretics can pop up anywhere . Woe to
the vampire who cries wolf, though . Some Inquisitors
have been known to make examples of their petitioner,
rather than the supposed heretic she thought
was the target, and many others simply leave the
accuser to the tender mercies of the accused .
PULLING RANK
Being made a templar and accepted into the service
of a bishop or priscus is a great honor, and it may well
imply the worth of the vampire so privileged, but it does
not grant the bearer any particular authority . Templars
do not, in fact, have any inherent rank of their own .
This is not the same as saying that templars have
no status in the Sabbat . As the servants and representatives
of a more powerful Cainite, templars can often
inspire cooperation by throwing their patron's weight
around. An order that is meaningless when coming
from some uppity Lasombra or Ventrue antitribu carries
a lot more weight when it comes - or seems to come
-from a cardinal or archbishop, even if the deliverer
of the order is that same uppity Lasombra or Ventrue
antitribu. Thus, a templar's authority is inextricably
tied with the authority of his patron . Tied, as well, is
the perceived strength of the link between mentor and
protege. The last thing a templar ever wants is for his
fellow Sabbat to get the impression that he is out of
favor with his boss, since no one's going to give him the
time of night if he can no longer hold the threat of the
bishop's wrath over their heads .
This also means that what influence does filter
down to the templar is often geographically limited .
Where her superior holds sway, her own word carries
substantial weight . Move outside of those territories in
which her patron has influence, however, and few
vampires will be impressed when they learn who she
serves. Still, where the patron is powerful, the templar
is powerful, and many of them make a practice of
flaunting that authority, just so the other Licks in the
area remember who's boss .
Paladins are in a similar situation, but their position
is somewhat more secure . A templar may or may
not speak with his bishop's voice, but a paladin, who
normally has a much closer relationship with her boss,
is rarely out of favor. Other Cainites - even many
bishops and archbishops, depending on the rank oft he
paladin's patron - ignore the suggestions of a paladin
at their peril .
Many templars have unlives and pack relations
outside of their patron's service, and nearly all of them
have made a reputation for themselves before being
called to serve an elder. Even those templars who
cannot (or choose not to) rely on their liege's reputation
often have their own rank or status . Ultimately,
pulling rank is a viable option for templars only on
particular occasions, and the wisest (and longestsurviving)
among them learn quickly to find alternative
methods of operation .
Then, of course, some templars serve the Inquisition
directly . Their authority is nearly as great as that
of the Inquisitors themselves .
Inquisitors wield rank like a weapon . Even the
mightiest archbishop or eldest cardinal must respect
the will of the Inquisition, at least under certain
circumstances. While many templars prefer to work
anonymously, Inquisitors frequently enter a region
with pomp and circumstance, clad in full ceremonial
CHARTER FouR : OF WITS AND WISDOM
107
regalia and demanding cooperation. They get it more
often than not, if for no other reason than that most
Sabbat Cainites would gladly sacrifice their own right
arm to the morning sun than draw down an accusation
of heresy . Since any refusal to cooperate with an
Inquisitor can result in just such a charge for all but the
most highly connected Cainite, Inquisitors find they
often have less need for more subtle tactics .
SOCIAL OBLIGATIONS
Should a ranking Cainite prove unable to attend
(or simply uninterested in attending) a convocation or
religious rite, it is sometimes acceptable for a templar
or paladin to be sent in her place . It is not wise to do this
sort of thing frequently, however, as failure to attend
ritae on a regular basis starts drawing unwelcome attention
. Many templars are just as happy to be attending
these events - particularly those who truly believe in
the Sabbat's para-religious mysticism - but beyond
that, it is an excellent opportunity for the templar to
reinforce her connection with her patron in the minds
of other Sabbat, thus strengthening her own position
(for as long as her patron remains in power, anyway) .
Even more importantly, many templars use the opportunity
to dig into the activities of their patron's rivals,
making connections and learning tidbits of information
that might prove unavailable closer to home .
Uncovering any deep, dark secrets in such a public
setting is not particularly likely, but even typical
scuttlebutt can often prove educational .
On the other hand, a templar attending such an
event in her mentor's name makes herself a target to
those who may bear a grudge against her boss but are
unwilling to strike at him directly . Away from her
liege's base of power, the templar rarely has access to
substantial backup, and may find herself confronting
adversaries and rivals she is largely unprepared for .
Clever templars turn this to their advantage, ferreting
out threats to their patrons that might not otherwise be
apparent. The templar James McAllister, for instance,
has developed a widespread reputation for getting
soused off drunk juicebags at various social convocations,
and often talks just a bit more than he should
about his archbishop's activities . Because few of his
patron's rivals survive their attempts to take advantage
of this "inside information," no one has yet figured out
that McAllister stages these little charades for the sole
purpose of seeing who acts on his (false) "revelations ."
Inquisitors, who frequently possess enough religious
and ceremonial knowledge to conduct ritae
themselves, often use religious festivals to root out
suspected heathens . More than one Red Robe has
been known to make accusations - and, on rare
occasions, even hand down sentences - in the midst
of a ritual, based on no evidence except that a
particular vampire proved ignorant of some specific
precept of the Sabbat's religious rites and practices . It
is, perhaps, an unfair method of determining heresy -
but since when has that mattered?
UNDERCOVER OPERATIONS
Sometimes, even in a sect as openly brutal as the
Sabbat, subtlety is the only way to get things done .
Not every Cainite can be intimidated by the threat of
an angry archbishop or the long arm of the Inquisition
. The Anointed normally prefer to make their
presence known, to do what needs to be done and let
the survivors deal with the aftermath . At times,
though, they find themselves forced to investigate
suspects from behind the scenes . Even for the cleverest
and most experienced among them, going
undercover in a Sabbat pack or the retinue of an elder
poses a laundry list of problems not faced by their
counterparts in the Camarilla .
It's ironic that the first and often highest hurdle
is the very same thing that holds the Sabbat together
as a sect . The Vaulderie makes it extremely difficult
for any outside agent to infiltrate a Sabbat pack ; or
rather, infiltration is relatively easy, but getting out
may take some doing . Because Vinculi are so unpredictable,
there's no guarantee that a templar who
participates in the Vaulderie with a rival pack may
not wind up more loyal to them than to his original
patron. It is for this reason that few templars are
willing to take such a risk, preferring violence and
direct confrontation to sneaking about . Those
templars forced into such a situation make a habit of
returning to their master's side whenever possible, to
strengthen their bonds of loyalty . This is also why
Sabbat elders do not always assign their best agents to
such jobs, as it is better to risk a pawn who remains
ignorant of your schemes than one who's in on them
with you, even if the latter might do a better job .
Frankly, most templars have no good way around
the issue other than to hope that their stay with a
suspect's pack is a brief one . Avoiding the Vaulderie
draws attention, especially from a newcomer, and in the
most paranoid of packs that alone can be enough to get
an infiltrator "vanished ." Some few templars may have
either stolen or independently created the Sanguinary
Expulsion ability developed by the Camarilla archons,
but this is so rare among the Sabbat that it cannot yet be
considered a viable tactic (see the Appendix) .
If rumor is to be believed, the Inquisition has an
easier time of it . Many Cainites whisper that the Red
Robes possess a ritual that will shatter a Vinculum just
as the Vaulderie shatters the blood bond . Most Sabbat
vampires find this a frightening prospect, as it means no
place is safe from the eyes and ears of the Inquisition .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
108
THE RITUAL OF THE SEVERED HAND
The Inquisition does indeed have access to a
thaumaturgical rite that will break the otherwise
permanent Vinculum ties, but they are growing
extremely reluctant to use it .
The Tremere Inquisitor Ferdinand d'Amico
first invoked the Ritual of the Severed Hand in the
late 1800s . Unfortunately, he was killed immediately
afterward by the subject of the rite . The ritual
itself became one of the most potent weapons in
the Inquisition's arsenal, allowing them to place
agents anywhere within the Sabbat without fear of
divided loyalties .
While investigating the destruction of the
Tremere antitribu in Mexico City, a templar and
servant of the Inquisition named Wilmina Eddings
came across an old journal of d'Amico's - and
discovered, much to her horror, that the
thaumaturge had not created the ritual, as the
Inquisition had always believed, but had in fact
merely discovered it in an old tome . Nowhere in
his journal was there an indication of where that
tome was now, or whence it might have come.
The Ritual of the Severed Hand has not been
banned in light of Eddings' discovery, but its use
has been severely curtailed until the Inquisition
can investigate its origin . It is entirely possible that
they have been using a ritual with roots in demonic
Thaumaturgy or other, darker powers, and
neither the urgency nor the irony of the situation
is lost on the Inquisitors. Until a definitive answer
is found one way or the other, the ritual sees use
only in the most dire circumstances . For specifics
of this ritual, see the Appendix .
Once a Sabbat Cainite has successfully gone undercover
and dealt with the Vaulderie issue as well as
circumstances permit, her next step depends largely on
the purpose of her investigation . For a templar seeking
intelligence on her mentor's rival, the task may be as
straightforward as wait around, listen to what's going on,
and then get the hell out . An Inquisitor seeking evidence
of infernalism or collaboration with the sect's
foes, however, must deal with all the same threats faced
by deep-cover archons, and more besides. Since the
Sabbat rarely engages in social penalties, punishing
almost all serious infractions with torment or Final
Death, most of the sect's rogues are more than happy to
take the chance of killing a templar or even an Inquisitor
if it means escaping judgment . Some Anointed
prefer to make their presence known to the archbishop
or other ranking Cainite in an area before going undercover
(assuming that the archbishop isn't one of the
vampires being investigated, of course), simply to ensure
that they have someone who can confirm their
identity and possibly provide reinforcements should the
need arise . More frequently, an infiltrator will be a single
member of a pack of templars or Inquisitors (or both) ;
one agent handles the investigation, calling for his
companions when he either runs the quarry to ground or
finds he suddenly needs help .
Because they indulge their inhuman urges, and are
less concerned than Camarilla Licks about making a
scene, Anointed working undercover rely on their
Disciplines to a much greater extent than their archon
counterparts . Not that they limit their activities to
blatant displays of power -if nothing else, this is a bad
idea because there's always someone with bigger claws
or darker shadows than you have - but it's still
considered an acceptable tactic .
Undercover Cainites use both supernatural and
mundane methods, from Obtenebration to phone taps,
to spy on their suspects, seeking the details of future
plans and any evidence of treachery . An investigator
in the Sabbat actually has an easier time of it, when it
comes to evidence, than an archon . Infernalism, for
instance, almost always leaves some form of physical
evidence, whether it's a blackened altar, unheard of
mystical ability, or even a "witch's mark ." Collaboration
with the Camarilla can be harder to prove, but it
requires very little such proof to turn a suspect's
packmates against her. Sometimes, particularly if a
Vinculum is weak, the mere accusation is sufficient . At
the very least, it's enough to justify calling in other
Anointed and turning a quiet investigation into a
louder - and much more violent - affair .
Because the Anointed have such strong reputations
for both making their presence known and simply
beating down any resistance to their investigation,
many Sabbat don't think to look for undercover agents
at all . Many Anointed have taken to arriving in a
territory in force- thus drawing attention-while a
single one of their number sneaks in the back way and
begins poking around while everyone is distracted .
Some Inquisitors even go so far as to dress one of their
templars in the Inquisitor's hooded robes of office,
allowing this "double" to stand in during ceremonies
while the Inquisitor herself noses around .
HERETIC!
The image of the Inquisition held by the most
Sabbat Cainites - that is, religious fanatics on an
endless hunt for heresy -is actually the greatest advantage
an Inquisitor has when engaging in an undercover
investigation . It isn't that the above definition of the
CHAPTER FouR: OF WETS AND WISDOM
109
Inquisition is false, so much as that most Cainites greatly
underestimate the scope of the term heresy .
The Inquisition was initially founded to stamp out
infernalism within the sect, but that is hardly the full
extent of their purpose. The Sabbat maintains that
they have a holy calling to stop the Antediluvians
from consuming their progeny when Gehenna comes .
By that logic, anyone who serves the cause of the third
generation is a heretic, and falls under the jurisdiction
of the Red Robes.
The Camarilla "Kindred" are all servants of the
Antediluvians, at least in the eyes of the Sabbat . So are
the Setites and the Giovanni .
Suddenly, heresy doesn't just mean consorting
with demons. Put the right spin on it and it also means
consorting with any vampire not of the Sabbat .
The Inquisition likes to downplay their involvement
with anything beyond the bounds of infernalism .
It makes the traitors feel safe, thinking that they aren't
on the Red Robes' hit list . Many an Inquisitor has
gleaned hours of amusement from the looks on the
heretics' faces when they discover how wrong they are .
Some of them even keep the faces themselves. . . .
YOU DON'T NEED
TO SEE OUR IDENTIFICATION
The Sabbat takes a relatively informal approach
to identifying its agents . For the most part, if you've
got enough power that no one questions your claim to
be a templar for the bishop, then you are, at least in
their eyes, a templar for the bishop . Sometimes,
though, particularly when dealing with other elders
or Cainites of rank, the templar needs something a bit
more substantive.
No sect-wide symbol or icon is used for identifying
templars and paladins . Instead, many such agents carry
the personal seal of the cardinal, priscus, archbishop,
or whoever it is they serve . This can be anything from
a signet ring to a tattoo to a signed paper stamped in
wax, and its authority carries exactly as far as the elder's
influence extends . Still, possession of such a seal suggests
at the very least that the templar does indeed
serve a more powerful patron, and should be acknowledged,
if not obeyed outright .
These symbols and seals can be forged, of course, but
this isn't as easy as it sounds. The would-be impersonator
must have an original - or at least a close
approximation - to work from, and most templars
would suffer Final Death before surrendering their own.
This is partially due to fanaticism, but a large part of it
is simple fear of the mentor's wrath . Then, of course, the
forger must decide if the gains of such a ruse offset the
risks, as anyone caught with such a forged seal is turned
over to the tender loving care of the Cainite whose
t
authority has been stolen . Sabbat elders can be very
creative when it comes to expressing their displeasure .
Because they so rarely work undercover (or so it
appears), and because they normally arrive amidst a
great deal of pomp and circumstance, Inquisitors do
not often have difficulty convincing others that they
are who they say they are . Someone who shows up at
a rite clad in red robes and severe hood, accompanied
by four equally grim figures and a pair of knife-bristling
templars, is either a genuine Inquisitor or an impostor
with balls of cast titanium and a brain to match . The
penalties for impersonating an Inquisitor make even
those for impersonating a templar pale in comparison .
The Inquisitors do have other forms of identification,
however . Many of them use specific code phrases,
taken from the Sabbat's liturgy, to identify one another,
if not to prove their identity to outsiders . Furthermore,
the Iron Reliquary (see Chapter Two) is not merely
useful for religious ceremony, but also serves as a badge
of office . The reliquary is issued to each Inquisitor when
he first assumes the office, and those that are recovered
from Inquisitors slain in the line of duty are destroyed .
The regent herself purportedly handles each and every
one of these reliquaries before they are bestowed upon
the new Inquisitor, which ensures that a close examination
with certain gifts of Caine will eventually reveal
the reliquary's connection with the regent, thus proving
its authenticity .
PACKS
Anointed almost never work alone ; it's simply too
dangerous an undertaking . Even if a single agent is the
best option for an investigation, he often has a pack
camped just outside the immediate area, ready to ride
to his rescue or to crash down on a suspect's head like
a tonS of bricks . imilarly, paired templars are almost unheard of in
the Sabbat. True, they might be more effective at
conducting investigations than one agent alone . Even
with the added magic and ritual of the Vaulderie to be
considered, however, a two-way Vinculum is simply
Too similar to a shared blood bond for the elders of the
Sword of Caine to be comfortable with the notion .
Loyalty to an entire pack is one thing, but excessive
loyalty to a single Cainite leads to bad decisions (such
as putting the good of one's partner above the needs of
the sect) . Thus any such pairings are extremely short
term, at most, and are exceedingly rare even then .
The Anointed operate primarily in packs, which
vary in size and makeup depending on the abilities and
the purposes of those involved .
Small Packs
Unlike the Camarilla, which seems to prefer that
its archons operate in small groups, such packs are
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
110
actually in the minority where the Sword of Caine is
concerned. Larger groups are more impressive and, in
most combat situations, more effective .
Smaller packs are often drawn together for a specific
purpose (which means they have not necessarily
worked together previously), and are used primarily in
situations where stealth is more important than asskicking
. Should a sect elder or, for whatever reason,
the Inquisition need to send agents into a Camarilla
domain, the small pack is the favored option . The
Sabbat may talk big, but it's not anxious to antagonize
its rival sect until and unless it's prepared for military
action . A small, stealthy pack has a much greater
chance of getting in and out without drawing notice .
More frequently, small packs are assembled in
circumstances where a larger force might be viewed as
provocative. A bishop is wise to travel with bodyguards
at all times, but when attending a meeting
called by a cardinal or a priscus, the presence of an
entire entourage can offend, implying a lack of faith in
the host's security . A small pack of templars, while less
effective than an entire platoon, can still fend off most
potential threats .
Finally, these groups are used for assassinations
and sabotage within the sect . A bishop cannot afford
to get caught when trying to eliminate a rival . A small
team is far more likely to be able to reach the target
without being discovered .
As the examples above indicate, many small packs
are expendable (of course, in the eyes of many elders, all
young Sabbat are expendable . . . ) . What better way to
avoid attention, after all, than to ensure that no one
with knowledge of your involvement remains alive or
undead to talk? Truly wily elders have planned the
assassination of such agents well in advance, sometimes
choosing their catspaws based in part on how easy they
will be to remove after the fact . It is not a practice the
Sabbat officially condones, but the sect does a lot of
things regularly that it does not officially condone . . . .
Large Packs
The Anointed appreciate the intimidation value of
a large retinue . In a sect based largely on strength rather
than supremacy of the eldest or most heavily connected,
even the dreaded Inquisitors must be able to back up
their claims of authority . The Inquisition traditionally
operates in a seven-Cainite pack-one Inquisitor, four
subordinates, and two templars -that is easily impressive
(and frightening) enough to inspire cooperation .
Beyond the Inquisition, though, few sizable packs
are made up entirely of templars . More frequently, a
single templar is a member of a pack of "normal"
Sabbat. The templar often serves as the pack's ductus
or priest and directs his pack to his patron's benefit .
Most templar-led packs, though certainly not all of
them, are fixed rather than nomadic in nature .
Templar-led packs are the primary line of defense
when the Camarilla initiates one of its rare military
offenses, and those that are nomadic are often responsible
for seeing that the patron's interests are protected
during Crusades as well . Whether they serve the Inquisition
or some powerful elder, though, the purpose of
large packs is almost always a martial one .
POWER PLAY
It is, of course, against Sabbat tradition for either an
Inquisitor or an active templar to hold a position of rank
above the pack level (though former templars may
certainly do so) . Bishops, archbishops, and higher offices
have specific responsibilities that are simply not
compatible with the duties of the nomadic Inquisitors or
the subservient templars . So that means that Anointed
have no vested interest in playing politics, right?
Uh-huh. Sure . Two kinds of Cainites actually
believe that - the dead, and the soon-to-be-dead .
Some Anointed, like so many vampires, are simply
determined to use any means at their disposal to
advance their own schemes - but even those fanatically
loyal to their duties and the sect often find reason
to pull strings .
Those who serve a particularly powerful master
often find it relatively easy to begin establishing a power
base of their own . More than one templar has helped
elevate an ally or a pawn to a position of power in a
strong pack or a city's hierarchy by dropping his own
patron's name in support of that candidate . For instance,
no fewer than three archbishops, a priscus, and
even a cardinal purportedly owe their current political
success to a prominent paladin on the East Coast . Her
carefully worded implications-phrased vaguely enough
that no one could actually accuse her of making specific
promises - suggested that her own mentor, Cardinal
Kyle Strathcona, supported the candidates' bids for
power. This phantom patron turned matters to their
favor, and they, in exchange, owe her a sizable debt . So
far, they have all been open to her requests and "suggestions,"
but should any of them balk in the future, she is
quite prepared to weaken their political foundations by
revealing that her patron never, in fact, gave a rat's ass
about them one way or the other .
Of course, things need not be even that complex .
Despite the sect's doctrine of "free will," most - well,
many - young Sabbat vampires are smart enough to
follow orders from high-ranked Cainites, and most of
them aren't going to question the word of a known
templar. Cooperation can be demanded from other
Sabbat, all sorts of orders can be given in the master's
name, and they'll likely be obeyed more often than not .
CHAPTER FOUR : OF WITS AND WISDOM
11I
At least until the bishop finds out, of course.
Whether this power is gained through the abuse of
a master's authority or the careful orchestration of false
accusations, what is a vampire to do once he has it?
While greed and ambition are no less prevalent in the
Sabbat than in the Camarilla, some of the Anointed
truly seek power for the good of the sect, or at least of
their particular faction . Some templars use what influence
they have to increase their patron's authority
rather than their own . Inquisitors often use puppet
figureheads as tools for crushing heresy that they
themselves could not quash . Regardless of the terror
inspired by the Red Robes, a local archbishop is certain
to have resources the Inquisitor cannot access, and if
you have such an authority in your pocket, you have
access to a whole new range of tactics .
Sometimes an elder simply has too much military
and political clout in her home city for the Anointed
to easily take her out with a frontal assault, regardless
of the size of the pack involved . Although they don't
have the same experience with such matters as do the
archons, the agents of the Sabbat often wield enough
political might to start chipping away at an elder's base
of power from below . The archbishop is too firmly
ensconced in her haven? Take a page from those damn
Camarilla Licks, and have it condemned . Have the
bank freeze her assets . Put her own templars on the
receiving end of a SWAT team . The Sabbat doesn't
enjoy resorting to mortal tools, but the smart ones are
williOng to do it when the need arises . f course, the average templar doesn't have the
same sort of connections among those mortal institutions
as do his archon counterparts, but he has other
ways to get things done . The Camarilla, with their
rigid Masquerade, may not mind taking years to bribe
and blackmail some juicebag in City Hall, but the
Sabbat has better things to do . Break fingers until you
get what you want! Dominate him until his eyes bleed!
Kidnap his wife! Things will start to happen, guaranteed-
and if there's a mess to clean up afterward, well,
Screw it . It's not your responsibility .
This alone won't be enough to knock an elder on
her ass, but if you can keep up the pressure, it may
weaken her enough that you and your pack can finally
kick in the door and deal with the bitch .
Another favored tactic is to make your target's
rivals do the job for you . The Inquisitor known as
Navarrese enjoys sweeping into a pack's territory with
his retinue and very obviously investigating someone
other than his true suspect . He never directly accuses
this catspaw, of course, since that might tarnish the
Inquisition's infallible reputation, but it's quite evident
who he's focusing on . This is often enough to throw the
true suspect off her guard - but more importantly,
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
112
Navarrese suddenly has a very frightened vampire who
knows the local layout and is absolutely desperate to
clear his name . More than one such "suspect" has done
a great deal of the Inquisitor's investigating for him,
ultimately handing him on a silver platter everything he
needs to convict the true offender .
O OUTSIDE AGITATION
Even the Inquisition, with its carte blanche authority
throughout the sect, has to at least pretend that it has
a viable reason for sticking its nose into the affairs of
high-ranking Cainites . Not even the Red Robes can just
wander up to a cardinal or a priscus and yell "Heretic!"
without some sort of evidence of wrongdoing .
Of course, some evidence hardly means real evidence,
does it? Although they prefer not to do so, the
Inquisition has been known to not only manufacture
evidence, but even to instigate trouble in a particular
elder's domain, all for the express purpose of making
someone call them in so they have a legitimate reason
for getting involved . Most Inquisitors won't actually
convict or punish a Cainite on the grounds of evidence
they themselves planted - they aren't looking for
excuses to kill random sectmates -but they will hold
the threat of investigation or even sentencing over an
elder's head. More than one pack, and indeed more
than one Sabbat city, is actually under the indirect
influence of the Inquisition .
Even when they are not directly responsible for
whatever trouble called them hence, Inquisitors rarely
hesitate to take full advantage of any opportunity
that arises . Many of the Red Robes make a practice of
instigating veritable witch hunts, investigating everyone
toward whom even the most improbable
accusation is leveled, and in essence creating an
atmosphere so rife with paranoia that the Cainites
involved are literally frightened into cooperating .
Not only does this often lead to the real heretic, as her
packmates are only too happy to help discover her,
but it gives the Inquisitor leverage over everyone
involved . Charges against those guilty only by association
can even be trumped up and then dropped in
exchange for "future services ." Even the regent herself
might be startled - and more than a little
alarmed - to learn how much secular influence the
Inquisition actually holds .
AN EYE FOR AN EYE
Everything that paranoid Camarilla Licks whisper
fearfully about the archons is true of the templars and the
Inquisition. They have eyes everywhere, and they are
actively looking for even the slightest infraction . The
Sabbat has fewer precepts to break than the Camarilla,
but it enforces those precepts with a draconian efficiency
that even jaded elders shudder to contemplate .
GADGETS AND GIZMOS
The Sabbat, as a sect, has always been better
than the Camarilla at keeping up with modern
advancements in technology. The average age of
the vampires in power, if not that of the sect's
population as a whole, is substantially younger
than their counterparts in the Ivory Tower . Even
those Sabbat vampires who are truly ancient prove
more open to new technologies, if only because
they are exposed to them more frequently .
Despite this, it's downright amazing how
shocked the younger Sabbat vees act when they
discover that the templars and the Inquisitors
make just as much use of modern gadgets .
It isn't so much the weaponry, since that's to be
expected; these nights, a templar wielding a
submachine gun is actually as common as one brandishing
a gladius. But weapons aren't the issue here .
More than one Cainite has gone to her Final Death
at the hands of Inquisitors, convicted of conspiring
with the hated Camarilla when the GPS locator
planted in her Chevy clearly showed her spending a
great deal of her time across the border . Others have
been betrayed by phone taps, and a templar recently
arranged the execution of an entire pack at the hands
of the Inquisition after he hacked into one of their
AOL accounts and discovered that they frequented
several Satanist chat rooms . He also discovered that
a large number of neonates really don't have the first
clue what being undead really means, since a lot of
them are still frightened at the thought of a polygraph
test. Perhaps most importantly, modern
communications allow for increased efficiency in
both Crusades and defense against the Camarilla ;
the recent success the Sword of Caine enjoyed on the
East Coast is proof of this.
On the other hand, the loss of New York has
provided unequivocal evidence that the Camarilla
is beginning to adapt to new technologies as well,
and that this long-time advantage of the Sabbat
may not be an advantage for much longer . At the
behest of their masters, many templars have spearheaded
new initiatives designed to grant the Sabbat
first crack at emerging technologies, even going so
far as to provide support and funding for - gasp!
- mortal companies and inventors . It's distasteful,
treating with mortals the way the Camarilla
does, but as the Final Nights approach, the Sabbat
realizes that the advancements of mankind, rather
than the determination of the Cainites, could well
determine whether it will stand victorious over
the Camarilla and its ancient masters, or wind up
as nothing more than a charred appetizer .
CHAPTER FOWL OF WITS AND WISDOM
113
Vampires of such importance cannot, of course, be
bothered hunting down every little violator . Ducti and
other local or pack-level authorities are left to deal with
minor infractions . Only when a crime is severe enough
to threaten the interests of a particularly powerful elder,
or even the sect as a whole, do the Anointed step in to
make an example of the parties involved .
As with all other facets of the sect's policy, the
Sabbat must maintain at least the appearance of individual
rights and freedoms when it comes to its system
of justice . Thus Anointed frequently hold open courts
to decide on the guilt or innocence (and the sentencing)
of accused transgressors . In the modern nights,
these trials actually take a form very reminiscent of an
American courtroom. At times the accusing Anointed
acts as prosecutor and the accused (or, if she has some
truly staunch allies, another vampire) acts as counsel,
both arguing before an uninvolved elder or a second
Anointed serving as judge . In other instances, the
Anointed himself serves as judge, and it is entirely up
to the defendant to prove her own innocence in the
eyes of a hostile court.
Occasionally, no single individual is responsible
for deciding guilt or innocence, or for
sentencing . Although the accusing officer moderates
the trial, the members of all attending packs
vote to determine guilt. Suggestions for sentencing,
in these instances, are often taken from the attendees
as well, and then voted upon, and a certain
amount of informal prestige is granted the Cainite
who suggests the "winning" punishment .
The entire affair is little more than a show for
the Cainite masses . The Anointed rarely publicly
accuse a Cainite of severe crimes unless they are
already certain of his guilt ; the trial is intended to
provide the illusion of impartial justice . That said,
some few defendants have managed to prove themselves
innocent, usually by managing to somehow
discredit the witnesses or evidence called against
them. The accusers resent being made to look like
idiots, but better that than to render an unjust
verdict and risk an uprising in protest . Very rarely,
when they feel they can do it without tarnishing
their own reputations, an Inquisitor or templar will
deliberately stage a trial with a "not guilty" verdict,
simply to display to the public the wisdom, justice
and mercy of the courts .
At other times, a suspect is either too dangerous to
be brought to trial, or a templar knows full well that she
has insufficient evidence to prove the suspect's guilt in
the eyes of the masses . Such vampires are usually
assassinated without so much as a nod to habeas corpus .
The Sword of Caine prefers to keep up appearances,
but it is, if nothing else, pragmatic .
Trial by Ordeal
Although less common than it used to be, more
than a few Anointed (and elders) still believe in trial
by ordeal. A custom frequently practiced in the Dark
and Middle Ages, and common well into the Colonial
Era (such as in the Salem witch trials), trials by ordeal
are extremely painful or even deadly . Supposedly only
the guilty suffer, while the innocent are protected by
divine intervention . Those Sabbat who still practice
this tradition don't necessarily think that God will
take a hand, but they honestly believe that some
greater power- perhaps Caine himself-will intervene
to save the falsely accused . Those who suffer
injury or Final Death through the ordeal are judged to
have been guilty; those who emerge unharmed are
deemed innocent (use of Disciplines to escape or ward
off damage is usually seen as an admission of guilt) .
Obviously, most accused unfortunate enough to
draw one of these fundamentalist Anointed as a judge
suffer greatly and often die, but rumor is that some few
of those tried do indeed seem to enjoy some sort of
outside protection from the torments of the ordeal .
A few of the common trials by ordeal, though by
no means all of them, follow .
• The touch of an Iron Reliquary or other metal
implement heated red- or white-hot, or walking across
a heated metal plate .
•
Insertion of one of the offender's limbs into
a furnace .
•
Slow immersion in lye, acid or other caustic
substances .
•
Immersion in scalding water .
•
Force-feeding of drugged or poisoned blood .
SENTENCING
Once guilt has been established, sentence is handed
down by the Anointed. The accuser has a great deal of
leeway in selecting the criminal's punishment, but
certain traditions influence that decision . Treason to
the sect is almost always punishable by Final Death -
usually painful - and infernalists are usually "purified"
brutally before execution . Beyond that, the judge
can let her twisted imagination run wild .
Although some high-ranking Cainites can be
stripped of their rank in punishment for some transgression,
such loss of status is rarely the penalty for
serious crimes . Normally it is the result of a failed
power play against another elder . The Sabbat, by and
large, only hands down two forms of punishment :
torture and Final Death .
No one has yet found a practical limit to the
preferred forms of torture engaged in by the Sword of
Caine. Everything on the trial by ordeal list, almost
every torture used by archons, and dozens more besides
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
114
ORDEAL, TAKE TWO
Sometimes, if the accused is a particularly
respected or useful member of the sect, and if the
accuser feels that he might still be useful to the
Sabbat, a convict is given a fighting chance at his
own execution . Rather than being burned, or
strapped down and sliced apart, these "fortunate"
Cainites are condemned to Final Death by such
methods as should kill them-but that offer just
the tiniest hope of survival . Walking the plank
off a skyscraper is a favorite . Others are bled
almost to frenzy, weighted down, and dumped in
the center of an enormous body of water, and
some are bound hand and foot and hurled into a
room with a captive Lupine . This last is, for
obvious reasons, not common, though it's quite
the spectacle when it does happen, and many
attending Sabbat videotape it for later reminiscing.
Should the truly resourceful (or truly
fortunate) vampire manage to survive, his sentence
is considered commuted and he may return
to his pack or his position- though he's going
to have eyes watching over his shoulder for the
rest of his unlife, and even a blink in the wrong
direction results in instant execution, with no
possibility of a second reprieve .
can be inflicted upon a convicted renegade . Final
Death is often the result of such tortures ; rarely is a
subject granted a beheading or other quick end. Burning,
slow dismemberment, consumption by animal
ghouls-these are the fates bestowed upon those who
betray the Sabbat .
I
WAR
In the Camarilla, the archons have to play a large
part in the sect wars . In addition to the Ivory Tower's
police, they're also the backbone of the military . Not
so for the Anointed . A vast majority of Sabbat vampires
are soldiers of one sort or another, so these
specialists need not carry the burden of combat with
the enemy. Martial operations are more properly the
purview of the Black Hand, an organization with
which neither the templars nor the Inquisition particularly
get along .
This is not to say that the Anointed have no
wartime duties, merely that they aren't the ones you
might expect.
JUST ONE OF THE Boys
Most templars who find themselves involved in
war take the field as just another soldier . Since many
of them serve their patrons only some of the time, they
may be part of a war pack that has nothing to do with
their templar duties .
VESTED INTERESTS
More often than not, a templar involved in a
Crusade or the defense of a city is less concerned with
the success of the operation as a whole than he is with
ensuring that his mentor's own interests are protected .
Although they dislike admitting it, many Sabbat elders
do indeed have their fingers deep in mortal
institutions . A bishop with political ambitions might
send her templars along on a Crusade to ensure that all
the Camarilla bastards connected to City Hall are
eliminated or driven out before they can make arrangements
for their mortal pawns, thus leaving a
ready-made network of puppets in place for the bishop
to come in and exert his influence . When defending a
city, templars might put up a particularly harsh defense
around their patron's domain, buying her time to
escape, even if it means sacrificing other territories to
the Camarilla incursion .
Templars have even been known to arrange wartime
"accidents" for fellow Sabbat who just happened
to be a threat to the patron . A scheming up-andcomer
with his eyes on the archbishop's position or
the favored childe of a powerful rival might be lost,
victims of "greater-than-anticipated resistance by
the Camarilla ." Such battlefield assassinations are
uncommon, as the templars don't want to risk the
success of the entire Crusade by weakening their own
soldiers, but when a victory starts to look likely, then
such "problem solving" can be undertaken with a bit
more impunity.
COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE
This is perhaps the most important duty of the
Anointed- Inquisitors even more so than templars
-during war . The Sabbat is aware of its own limitations
. It knows that the Camarilla will defeat it time
after time if they are allowed to shift the battle to a
political field . Most Camarilla incursions are led not
by archons with shotguns, but by pencil-pushing
bureaucrats who begin condemning havens and dispatching
trigger-happy police on "drug raids" against
Sabbat strongholds . In order to do that, the Camarilla
has to acquire inside knowledge of the city - and
CHAPTER FOUR: OF WITS AND WISDOM
1 1 5
that means spies and infiltrators . Servants of the
Ivory Tower . Heretics .
Cainites who think the Inquisition is tough under
normal circumstances would be horrified at the lengths
they'll go through to unmask Camarilla agents in times
of war . The slightest hint of abnormal behavior, the
merest accusation of impropriety, draws the Red Robes'
attention, if not presence . Trials are rarely conducted
during a Crusade or a defensive action - there simply
isn't sufficient time - but more than one vampire,
guilty or innocent, has found himself staked and stashed
in a meat locker until after the conflict . Others have
simply vanished .
Many Anointed make a practice of observing
Camarilla tactics from afar, focusing on an entire city
rather than on a single front . By making note of how
and where the enemy strikes (or strikes back), analytically
minded Anointed can determine what sorts of
weak points the Camarilla is exploiting ; and thus, by
process of elimination, narrow down the field of possible
infiltrators to those vampires who possess a
knowledge of those areas.
PEACEKEEPING
Surprisingly, the duty of some templars consists
primarily of preventing open conflict with the
Camarilla. The Sabbat isn't stupid . The sect's leaders
know well that the enemy sect is both larger and
better organized than they . When the Sabbat fights a
war for which it is unprepared, it loses -witness New
York. The last thing the regent and the cardinals
want is for a hotheaded pack to raise so much havoc
in a Camarilla city that the sleeping giant awakens
and retaliates . Some amount of trouble-making is
expected, and even encouraged, but it can go too far .
Some nomadic templars patrol the various cities that
sit on the edge of Camarilla territory, eyes and ears
open for any indication that one of the local packs is
about to get out of control and go racing across the
border to hurl Molotovs at Prince What's-his-name's
Elysium. Should these templars decide that the risk of
open war is too great for the time being, these packs
are reined in-and, if necessary, slapped down hard .
The Sabbat truly believes it can win this war, but only
when it fights on its own schedule, and its own terms .

Sect officials are hybrid creatures ; they're part detective,
part cop, part secret agent and part secret police .
Their stories can be drawn from a wide range of sources,
ranging from mysteries to spy thrillers, police investigations,
action-adventure and (of course) supernatural
suspense . Their characters can be inspired by such great
sleuths, investigators and cops as Sherlock Holmes,
Emma Peel, James Bond, Mick Belker, Mike Hammer,
Dana Scully and Fox Mulder . But these particular
Kindred have a great deal more potential to offer a
Storyteller and players than just another cop story with
supernatural cops . Sect officials have duties that go far
outside the range of mortal law-enforcement job descriptions-
they have the rare and sometimes thankless
task of making ideology into reality .
Sect officials see sides of their own sects - and
that of the opposition - at levels most ordinary
vampires can never imagine . These characters allow
the Storyteller to delve into the dealmaking, dirty
To Protect and to Serve
- Motto of the Los Angeles Police Department
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
1 1 7
laundry, elaborate conspiracies and savage vendettas
of both the Camarilla and Sabbat, from clashes with
anarch gangs and war parties to playing politics at the
highest stratum of vampire society . Templars can rub
shoulders with powerful prisci and famous archbishops
one night, and pound some manners into an arrogant
nomad pack the next . The red-robed Inquisitors can
strike fear into fledglings and bishops alike, from the
sheer tenacity of their investigation and the finality of
their judgment . Archons serve as the eyes and ears of
a justicar both in Elysium and in the clubs of the Rack .
On any given night they might be required to deliver
an unwelcome message to a short-tempered prince,
play poker with a gang of anarchs, or hunt down a
neonate who has succumbed to Wassail .
Sect officials also operate at the point where
responsibility and power intersect . Unlike the other
Licks on the street, they have a rare opportunity to
shape their world - or at least their corner of it . And,
of course, they have the dilemmas, disappointments
and frustrations that accompany such opportunity .
Their stories deal not only with what their power is,
but how they use it. Their power is not merely physical,
though many are formidable indeed . It comes from
their position, as the most visible and active representatives
of their sects, to investigate, enforce and
administer the traditions and edicts of their elders over
their fellows, and to defend the sect's ideologies
against its enemies, both inside the sect and without .
And if it is true that absolute power corrupts absolutely,
how the power and responsibilities these
characters wield affects them and those around them
can become the theme of a chronicle in itself . How far
will they go to attain their goals, or succeed in the
missions given them by their superiors? Does the end
justify the means they use to achieve it?
CHRONICLE TYPES
Chronicles centered around sect officials can encompass
a wide variety of story genres : action, mystery,
conspiracy or political intrigue, in which the players'
characters match wits, perseverance, and all the abilities
at their disposal with adversaries within their own
sect, or from the outside, while fulfilling their duty to
their sect and to the leaders they serve . Underlying all
of those elements is Vampire's basic theme of personal
horror : the despair, violence and futility that pervade
the World of Darkness and the souls of the Damned,
especially those of the Damned who have chosen a
duty that requires them to defend their sect's beliefs,
and risk their unlives in service to their fellows . Their
missions may bring them into conflict not only with
the rogues and rebels of their own kind, but with their
own Humanity, ethical Path, or personal loyalties ;
their dedication may drive them to fanaticism, despair,
or to compromise their own values for the sake of
accomplishing their goals .
At the center of every good story is a plot that
drives the action - and at the core of the plot is a
conflict that must be resolved, one way or another, in
order for the story to come to a satisfactory close . In a
Vampire chronicle, the conflict has two basic sources .
It can be imposed on the characters by the unfolding
plot, the events and actions of the Storyteller's characters
with whom the players come into contact - and
conflict - as they seek to carry out their duty to their
sects . Or the conflict can come from within the characters
themselves, as they struggle with contradictory
loyalties to mentors, allies or packmates, idealism
versus cynicism, their Humanity versus their Beasts . A
good chronicle has elements of both, which deepens
the drama of the players' stories . Events and interacting
with other characters around them can force them
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
118
to make choices that reflect the struggles in their own
souls . In responding to their inner conflicts, the players
also shape events and relationships with those around
them. The difference is one of approach and emphasis
-do you as Storyteller start with the plot, and see how
your players' characters react to the unfolding events?
Or do you start with the players' characters, their goals,
ambitions, and internal conflicts, and create a plot
that brings those issues dramatically out into the open?
PLOT-DRIVEN CHRONICLES
The most common approach to a chronicle is
driven by a Storyteller plot - the player characters
become involved in a conflict that originates from
outside events, or from the actions of Storyteller characters,
rather than on their own initiative . Or perhaps
the Storyteller has designed a particular storyline expressly
for her players' characters . This doesn't mean
that the characters' internal motivations should not be
taken into consideration, or do not affect the story .
This just means that the primary conflict in the story
is initiated by outside forces, and the players are
reacting to those forces based on their natures, loyalties
and sense of duty .
The following section looks at different styles of
plot-driven chronicles, but they are merely that - a
style of approach, not an exclusive definition. Mysteries
can include scenes with hard-hitting combat or
moments of chilling suspense . Action stories frequently
revolve around a mystery to be solved . Tales of espionage
often occur against a backdrop of war, siege, and
betrayals, and so contain elements of both mystery and
action, as well as some unique to the espionage own
genre . The Storyteller should feel free to use any
combination that makes sense for her story, and suits
the nature of the players' characters .
ACTION
Many sect officials are action-oriented Kindred to
start with, unafraid to put themselves physically at risk
in the line of duty . That risk can come directly from
their adversaries in that story . It can come from other
characters who oppose the characters' actions for reasons
of their own that might or might not have anything
to do with the goals of either side . It can also come from
outside forces : the weather, a natural disaster, the
dangers of the terrain or setting . To accomplish their
goals, the players must overcome or cleverly avoid all
these obstacles, usually relying on physical prowess,
courage, cleverness, a well-thought-out plan of action,
luck and occasionally superior abilities or firepower .
There's no such thing as a "random" encounter
As the Storyteller, the setting and all but the
players' characters are under your control, and are your
YOUR MISSION,
SHOULD YOU CHOOSE To ACCEPT IT...
Sect officials can be brought into stories in a
number of ways, but for a chronicle just starting
out, or for players who prefer that the Storyteller
provide the structure for the chronicle, a justicar
or bishop frequently gives the players' characters
a specific mission to accomplish . Of course, that
doesn't mean their superior tells them - or even
knows-the full story . Quite often the characters
will discover that the situation they are being sent
into is far more complicated than they expected .
They may be required to do more than first
requested, or even something different entirely,
to fulfill the spirit (if not the exact instructions)
of their assignment .
However, that is certainly not the only means
the Storyteller can use to introduce a new story .
Others - a prince, a member of the local
primogen, a pack's ductus, or even a rank-and-file
Kindred or Sabbat-may approach them with an
intriguing story or a request for help . An old
friend or ally might contact them with a plea for
their aid, or to call in an old prestation debt . Or
the players might just be in the wrong place at the
right time, and stumble across something that
arouses their interests, or be following up an
unexplained thread from a previous story .
Look for a variety of ways to introduce new
stories, including allowing your players to take
the initiative and go from city to city actually
looking for trouble . The presence of nosy strangers
is rarely welcomed by those with something to
hide, so sooner or later, trouble may well come
looking for them.
tools to guide the story along . Therefore, nothing that
occurs during the story will be totally arbitrary, nor
should it be . Look for ways to use various events,
encounters with other characters and descriptions of
the setting as a means to advance the story . When the
players enter a nightclub, the Storyteller characters they
encounter there should potentially provide them with
something -whether it's a bit of whispered gossip, an
overheard conversation, a warning not to interfere in
the primogen's business, or a cryptic note scrawled on a
cocktail napkin-that will take the story a step further
along. If it's too early in the story for them to encounter
the Tremere who can explain the symbols carved into a
discarded, bloody stake, then that Tremere might not be
there that night . But the Gangrel who has seen those
same symbols carved on a twisted tree in the cemetery
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
119
might be-and might also be willing to share his story,
if the players don't piss him off first .
The story determines what happens next or at
least might happen, depending on the actions of the
players . Whether the players run afoul of a Lupine or
"accidentally" run into the sheriff while scoping out
the local Rack, the encounter should have some kind
of story behind it, even if the players never learn what
it is . Don't bring on a Lupine just because the players
are passing through a stretch of non-urban countryside.
Werewolves really do have other things to do
than lie in wait for stray Kindred every night . So what
is the creature doing, and why is it there? Did it know
they were coming, and if so, how? Who was the sheriff
talking to in the alleyway, and why did he go to such
pains not to be seen with her? These events should not
be meaningless - the players will likely assume there
is some story significance behind anything that they
encounter during a story, especially if your description
makes it seem mysterious or dramatic. Don't disappoint
your audience.
Of course, not everyone the players interact with
will be vitally significant to the story, but look for ways
to provide opportunities for the players to further their
mission . If no such opportunity plausibly exists, then
you should make that plain as well - "You hang out at
the gazebo in the park for a couple of hours, but by
three in the morning, you still have seen no sign of the
Malkavian or his dog ."
Action Without Adversaries -Not all obstacles
in an action-oriented story need to involve actual
combat - crossing a ravine on a swiftly deteriorating
rope bridge, escaping from a deadly trap, or outwitting
a high-tech security system undetected can all provide
high levels of risky obstacles to the players' goals . Try
to vary the dilemmas the characters face by providing
alternative challenges for them to overcome, some of
which may well be even more dangerous than their
adversaries .
Natural Disasters - anything from hurricanes,
tornadoes, volcanoes, earthquakes, forest or brush
fires, landslides, blizzards and avalanches can pose a
significant threat to Kindred . Other man-made disasters,
such as nuclear power plant disasters, toxic waste
spills, or war zones can also serve a similar purpose -
a setting that poses risks to the players' characters and
forces them to deal with it almost as if it was another
adversary to their mission . Make sure the particular
disaster you choose is plausible for the time and place
where the story is occurring . Do not neglect to give
sufficient background and warnings (particularly with
weather conditions) so that players should be prepared
to deal with them, at least to some extent . To keep the
situation from feeling too arbitrary, tie in the story's
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
120
objective in someway, so the story needs this particular
occupancy or setting to make sense . The Sabbat, for
example, often uses severe weather conditions as cover
for raids into Camarilla territory . Characters might be
stranded by impassable roads or flood conditions and
seek emergency shelter in potentially hazardous territory,
or be trapped in an isolated island resort with a
few hundred mortal tourists and a rogue Kindred on a
feeding binge .
Ideally, the players should find it necessary to
brave the dangers of the disaster in order to accomplish
their goals, not just hunker down until it blows over.
However, the forced isolation scenario is a long-time
staple of horror films in which the dangers on the
outside trap the characters within a relatively small
enclosed space, such as a castle or house, along with
the monster of the night .
The Ticking Clock - For whatever story reason,
whether it's the beginning of a Conclave three
nights from now, a deadline imposed by a dangerous
anarch before he'll start draining hostages live on
national television, or the deadly threat of impending
dawn, the players only have a limited amount of
time to accomplish their objectives . In this kind of
story, anything that can serve to delay the players
can serve as an obstacle - and require them to do
some fast thinking, and perhaps daring improvisations
- to keep going. While a combat can certainly
delay them, look for other possibilities as well, such
as a wild goose chase after irrelevant clues, being
physically restrained either by the adversaries or
even a well-meaning ally, or having a vitally important
piece of evidence be lost or stolen, forcing the
players to lose valuable time in getting it back .
Remember that time is relative, and real time does
not necessarily have any relation to time passage in
the story . You as the Storyteller are responsible for
keeping time moving at a good pace for the story,
and making sure the players know how much time
they've spent, and how little they have left . At the
beginning of the story, time should pass more slowly,
allowing players to plan their actions and make
some initial progress - but as their deadline approaches,
time should move faster and faster, giving
the players a growing sense of urgency as they race
the clock to their goal .
"Accidents" Can Happen - Almost every adventure
movie has at least one "oh, shit!" moment -
the falling jeep in the tree in Jurassic Park, the knockedover
lantern that sets a building ablaze while a fight is
still ongoing, the car that won't start just when it's
needed to get away before the bomb blows . Frequently,
they occur because the story protagonists have miscalculated
in some way, or failed to take something into
account in their plans . Sometimes it's just piss-poor
luck. But suddenly the characters have an unexpected
problem that must be overcome or escaped right now .
This kind of complication intensifies the suspense and
thrill in a story, particularly if the emergency occurs as
a direct result of player actions .
Unfortunately, this kind of story twist is not something
the Storyteller can usually plan in advance . You
must simply keep an eye on the ongoing events and be
prepared to improvise, should an appropriate opportunity
arise . If the players overlook an obvious detail in
their planning, neglect to prepare an adequate escape
plan, or botch a critical success roll, you can have such
events backfire on the players in interesting - and
dramatic - ways . Note that such a complication
should never seem totally arbitrary . It must be plausible
for the situation, it should ideally arise as a direct
result of players' actions, and must advance or enhance
the storyline already in progress . It is far better to
refrain from introducing such a twist at all than to
throw in something that feels implausible, or like a
case of Storyteller whimsy .
Avoiding Hack `n' Slash - In an action-oriented
storyline, it's far too easy to allow it to degrade
into one combat scene after another, or for players to
get carried away with the physical conflict and seek to
solve all story obstacles with brute force . This is
especially true with characters like archons or templars
who are often formidable fighters in their own right,
and carry a sect-backed mandate to fulfill their duties
any way they see fit .
While an occasional rip-roaring, ass-kicking fight
allows players to revel in their characters' badass fighting
prowess, too many combat scenes tend to get old
and boring . Limiting combat scenes heightens their
excitement for the players - finally, we're gonna get
that bastard where it hurts! -and allows the Storyteller
to make the scene mean something in terms of the
storyline . A combat scene should advance the story,
not delay it .
The following are a few suggestions for Storytellers
to not only limit superfluous combat scenes, but also
make them meaningful to the story when they do occur .
Need for Secrecy- Have the players' characters
acting undercover, with a good deal of importance
placed on their not breaking their "cover," whatever
that is. The last thing they want to do is attract
attention to themselves . Archons in particular are
often investigators as much as enforcers, and requiring
them to conceal their presence and identities in order
to find out the truth gives them an additional layer of
Masquerade to uphold . If possible, reward them for
acting to preserve their covers rather than breaking
them by unnecessary or blatant violence, preferably
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
1 2 1
with in-story information or advantages that aid them
in their mission.
Make It Hard to Find a Time-Wasting Fight -
Players accustomed to bludgeoning their way through
anyone standing in their path are also accustomed to
easily finding opponents, and then spending a good
deal of game time in actual combat . However, their
opponents do not have to be as obliging . Smart adversaries
avoid fights, especially those they aren't
guaranteed to win . If the players' characters attack
ordinary mortals, you can always gloss over the fight in
a few sentences - "In a matter of minutes, your
opponents are all dead or out of action, unconscious on
the floor. Now you've got a mess on your hands,
someone will surely know you've been here . What do
you do now?" If the players attack another Kindred,
have that Kindred flee rather than fight against overwhelming
or uncertain odds, or call upon Disciplines
to get away . Do not indulge the players on a profitless
or time-wasting combat encounter . Save your efforts
for when such an encounter advances the story .
A Good Fight Is a Reward -Many players simply
enjoy a good fight for its own sake : the thrill of taking
chances, pitting their strengths against an opponent,
the uncertainty of its outcome . Pace such combat
encounters as the story unfolds so that they function
more as an in-story reward for players getting this far .
Players also enjoy coming into such an encounter with
the odds on their side . Reward them with small advantages
such as an ambush that catches their opponents
by surprise, or having their plan of attack actually work
(at least to start) the way they think it will . Or have
something they've done in a previous scene, such as
successfully persuading a local Cainite to provide them
with information, carefully planning their infiltration,
or talking their way through the outer lines of defense
rather than using brute force, add to their advantages
when combat is actually joined .
Make a Combat Encounter Meaningful to the
Story-Avoid using combat encounters (the dreaded
and senseless "wandering monsters") as a means to fill
time during a game session. Try to make any such
encounter have a bearing on the story . Perhaps the
local anarch gang has been tipped off that the players
are really a Sabbat infiltration pack (whether they are
or not), or a lieutenant among the adversary's forces
thinks that the nosy characters need a lesson about
minding their own business and takes action on his
own accord . Perhaps the players have come too close
to the adversary's secret haven and the fight is a
delaying tactic to cover his escape with the evidence .
Whatever the real reason is behind the conflict, make
sure you know it, and that it makes sense -preferably
something that advances the story along . Just as a
movie director tells the viewer what clues are important
by how they are presented in the film, train your
players to realize that if they encountered serious
resistance, there may be something going on here they
need to discover.
Start With a Bang - You may want to have a
good, rowdy fight at some point early in the story just
to give your players an initial taste of excitement that
will last them through a session or two where they
spend most of their time on less violent pursuits . Just
make sure that early fight is relevant to the long-term
plot, and provides more than just a chance to bust
heads. Whether they win or lose the fight is far less
important than what else they get out of it in terms of
the story. The players should have some questions
afterward ("How the hell did he know we were here?"
"What was in that truck they were trying to keep us
from discovering?"), or some clues to follow, such as a
prisoner to interrogate .
Training your players out of a hack `n' slash mentality
may take some time, but it's worth it in terms of
evolving more meaningful and varied kinds of stories .
Do explain to them up front that you're trying something
different, and assure them that they will get to kick
some teeth in when it is appropriate for the story, but not
to expect every encounter to turn into a bloody fracas .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
122
In fact, they should be looking for other means to
accomplish their goals, using their Abilities, Backgrounds
and wits as well as their less violent Disciplines .
Be willing to reward players who go out on a limb with
an innovative approach - consider giving an extra
experience point to a player who comes up with nonaggressive
approaches or clever solutions to a situation
that occurs in a session . Or even play along with their
ideas ; if they come up with a non-violent or imaginative
approach that isn't in your game plan, see if there's a way
to adapt to it, so they will be encouraged by success to try
such non-combative approaches in the future .
It's Clobbering Time - When the time is right,
however, an exciting combat scene can not only
provide a satisfying climax for the players' efforts and
the build-up of suspense through the unfolding of the
story, it can be a hell of a lot of fun . However, combat
should contribute something in terms of the story, and
the characters' adversaries should not be acting foolishly
or arbitrarily in allowing themselves to be drawn
into a fight.
Vampires, whether Sabbat, Camarilla or avowed
independent, should always look out for their own
interests - especially when they're putting their precious
undead hides at risk by engaging in a direct
confrontation . They should always have a good reason
for getting into a fight, and they should do so intelligently,
with a strong instinct for self-preservation . If
possible, they will seek to change the situation to their
own advantage, choose a setting that is advantageous
to them, or encourage the characters to separate so
that they can be picked off one at a time. Play your
Storyteller characters as if they plan to win, kick ass,
and take prisoners . Don't let them stumble foolishly
into players' hands, nor make mistakes that make
comic-book villains look brilliant by comparison . While
they may have flaws the players can exploit, those
flaws should be plausible to their characters .
Remember that centuries-old Kindred didn't survive
that long by taking needless risks or by fighting
their own battles when they had animal, mortal or
supernatural minions to do so for them . Any vampire
adversary of status probably has a number of lieutenants
(either Kindred or intelligent ghouls) and a small
group of rank-and-file musclemen (usually ghouls, but
possibly also a younger Kindred) who will be the
players' characters' most common opponents indirect
combat. A clever and competent lieutenant can provide
a great deal of trouble for players, which allows the
Storyteller to keep her elder mastermind scheming
and plotting over a sequence of stories . A returning
nemesis can provide significant story fodder and strong
motivation for players to oppose him, as they develop
an understanding of the full depravity of their enemy's
schemes . . . and a serious grudge over the times he's
slipped through their claws .
To add some additional danger and excitement to
a combat, try an unusual setting - the steel beams of
a skyscraper under construction 30 floors above the
pavement, or a warehouse with overhead catwalks, or
stacks of massive containers that form narrow, twisting
canyons and potentially hazardous falling objects . Or
an abandoned dump, filled with rusting hulks of automobiles,
toxic pools, broken bottles and splintered
furniture that provide impromptu stakes or dangerously
combustible kindling .
Pacing and Suspense - Nothing kills the
excitement generated by some fast action in the early
scenes than a sense that the story isn't going anywhere,
either because the players are spending all
their time trying to come up with a perfect plan, have
missed valuable clues, or are intent on a non-productive
path of investigation . As the Storyteller, you
need to keep a story's momentum going - not
necessarily by nonstop action, but by making sure the
players don't waste too much of their time on things
that slow the pace down . Once they've found the
vital clues in a scene, move them on to the next -
using in-story action (such as another character's
arrival, the approach of dawn, etc .) to get them going .
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
123
Or just gloss over the time, rather than make them
play every last minute . ("You search the entire warehouse,
but find no sign of any secret haven . In fact,
you're not sure that the Sabbat have ever been in
here. . . .") The players need time to think and plan,
perhaps even savor a small victory, but be prepared to
spur them onward if things look bogged down . This is
not to say that you should run the players through the
story like rats in a maze . You should, however, be
prepared to take action rather than allow your players
to grow frustrated or bored .
A story is suspenseful when players expect something
to happen . Sometimes they may know what that
impending doom is, sometimes they don't, but they still
anticipate something - most likely unpleasant - is
about to occur . To create that anticipation, you need to
provide just enough suggestion of what might happen to
spark the players' imaginations . Whether that's the fear
of being suddenly attacked from the shadows, having a
trap sprung, or something horrible happening to a loved
one or ally miles away, it is the expectation that creates
the tension, that sense of impending doom.
In creating an atmosphere of suspense, less is more .
The less the players truly know about what they're
facing, the more suspense any small detail the Storyteller
describes will generate . An unexplained noise
from a floor above, a locked door with mysterious
symbols painted on it in blood or a half-seen movement
in the shadows of an alleyway will take on
terrifying proportions, particularly if investigation cannot
explain them. The players' imaginations will fill in
whatever is unknown to a far greater degree of horror
than anything the Storyteller can create .
MYSTERIES
Almost all your stories will have some element of
mystery to them - Kindred are secretive creatures,
and no few have secrets they would kill in order to
protect . Discovering closely guarded secrets, however,
is a sect official's job . Whether the mystery is a longforgotten
grudge that has only now broken forth into
murder, a clandestine deal with enemies of the sect, or
the theft of a priceless Noddist manuscript, it is the job
of the archons and Anointed to unravel it, despite the
opposition of those who want to prevent them from
finding out the truth.
Murder most foul - "Murder," of course, refers
only to the Final Death of a fellow Kindred or Cainite .
The Sabbat doesn't care about the death of mortals in
the least, and in the Camarilla, such deaths are only
important if they endanger the Masquerade . Even the
death of a Kindred's ghoul is considered merely a
violation of domain - technically a property crime,
not murder.
On the surface, a murder investigation may not
sound like something an archon, templar or Inquisitor
should be concerned with, and most local Kindred
authority figures will probably feel the same way .
However, no law or tradition prevents a sect official
from investigating any suspicious Final Death she
encounters or hears about, particularly if more than
one such death has occurred . Even more importantly,
the murder may be only the tip of an iceberg, and
further investigation can lead to an even more serious
and far-reaching plot that will demand all a sect
official's wits and resources to uncover .
With murder, motivation is the key to the mystery.
Almost anything can serve as motivation for
murder, particularly among vampires, such as greed,
hatred, vengeance, jealousy, fear of discovery or
exposure, old grudges or brood feuds. The Storyteller
must know the answers to all the questions a
mystery poses .
Who-Who was the victim and who was directly
responsible for his death? Was the killer acting on his
own or was he a hired gun? Who helped the killer
commit the crime, and why? Were there witnesses, and
what did they see? Did the killer realize his act was
witnessed, and what might he do about it? What do
other Kindred (and ghouls, and mortals who might be
potentially involved) know about what happened,
about the victim, or about potential suspects?
What - What happened? How was the murder
committed? Was the murder planned, a spur of the
moment decision, or even an accident? What remains
(if any) were found? What steps did the killers take to
both carry it out and avoid getting caught, either in the
act or later? Did they seek to hide all traces of the
murder, plant false clues or frame a plausible, but
innocent, party? What alibis will they present if asked?
How well have they covered their tracks and what
clues did they overlook?
Why - Most important, why kill this particular
victim? What motivated the killer to commit murder?
Why that particular night, or in that particular
manner? What history existed between the victim
and the killer, the victim and other Kindred in the
city, the killer and other Kindred in the city? Was
there an old grudge, feud, or previous trouble between
them? Why should your players' characters
care in the least about this?
You need to scatter the different pieces of your
puzzle, decide which characters know what, and what
it will take for them to part with anything they know
to a bunch of investigative players' characters . You
need to know what each of them thinks of each other,
and have a good idea of all their old dark secrets and
how they may or may not tie into this particular plot .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
124
A CAVEAT FOR MORIARTY
Mysteries can be one of the most difficult of
story genres to run in a storytelling game because
while your players' characters may be experienced
at ferreting out clues and divining what they
mean, your players are most likely not. Solving a
mystery ultimately comes down to how well your
players, not their characters, can unravel your
clues . Not all players will be persistent or intuitive
enough to out-think your clever little plot, or
recognize your "obvious" clues . You will have to
balance giving too many clues (leading them to
solve the mystery without any effort) and giving
them too few (which can lead to frustration on the
part of both players and Storyteller) . It's usually
better to have too many clues prepared than too
few - you only have to give out as many as the
players need. You should also be flexible with
what lines of investigation the players choose to
follow- it is far easier to adapt the story clues to
their investigation than to attempt to persuade
them they're on the wrong track . The exception
to this is for "red herrings," the bits of information
that look like important clues but are really distractions
from the real thing . Don't let the players
waste too much time on these - make sure they
learn fairly quickly when they're pursuing a false
lead, and let them get back to the clues that count .
Real investigations are tedious, painstaking and
full of minutiae-but your players are looking for
entertainment, not the real-life work of a police
detective . Cut out the unnecessary crap . Keep the
story going, even if it means occasionally helping
the players "discover" a clue or having a Storyteller
character point out the significance of a
piece of information .
Then you'll be in good shape to play along with the
investigation, no matter what direction your players
decide to start looking .
Conspiracy theories - For vampires, the World
of Darkness teems with conspiracies . Whispered rumors
tell of the mysterious Inconnu, secretive
Methuselahs playing chess with Kindred unlives, the
dangerous agendas of the "other sect," or even one's
own elders. As Storyteller, it is your job to ask yourself,
what if the rumors are true?
Conspiracies are long-term mystery plotlines that
are revealed little by little through a whole series of
stories or events . In each story, which may not at first
glance have any obvious connection to another, players
uncover a few more of the underlying threads, or
4
find new connections they had not suspected before .
Conspiracies unfold in layers - each layer reveals
hints and clues that gradually peel away the layer
beneath it . To the investigating archons or templars,
it may seem as if just as they're getting close to the
answer, they suddenly uncover evidence that not only
proves their initial theory wrong, but may turn their
investigation in another whole new direction . The
further they progress, also, the more dangerous their
investigation may become, as they work their way
through the lower echelons up through the more
secretive and powerful conspirators who may themselves
not even realize the full complexity of the web
of which they are part .
A really good conspiracy can form the basis for an
entire chronicle, depending on how much effort the
Storyteller wants to put into designing its intrigues . It
may start very simply - a series of unexplained
disappearances, a murder with no apparent motive,
an attempted assassination of a prominent bishop or
elder. But while the investigating players may solve
the initial case (at least to the satisfaction of their
superiors), some important questions should always
be left unanswered, some oddities unexplained . This
isn't a bad idea even if you aren't running a conspiracy
. Never feel you have to allow your players to
learn all the answers . Leave some loose ends untied
for another story . With the next story, perhaps the
unanswered questions have odd similarities, even
though the two stories do not seem to be related .
Gradually, the players should piece together the clues
and realize that perhaps these mysterious coincidences
aren't coincidences after all .
Whether the players choose to investigate the
conspiracy further is, of course, up to them . The
Storyteller can continue to use the same conspiracy to
generate other stories whether the players ever learn
more of its true nature or not . However, the Storyteller
should look for ways to tie in the characters' internal
motivations and goals into the conspiracy's web, so
that they will be motivated to take more of the initiative-
to seek the answers that are eluding them, even
if their superiors are not interested in those answers,
which may prove an interesting conundrum in itself .
Building the conspiracy proper is a time-consuming
process, though it can be well worth the effort.
Start with a general idea of the conspiracy's goals, and
what it is trying to accomplish in the World of Darkness
. Is it a Gehenna cult seeking to strengthen one
sect or the other (or both) against the coming of the
Antediluvians? A pair of Methuselahs waging a centuries-
long game of chess with an entire city or even
nation as their chessboard? A secret council of Sabbat
and Camarilla elders who seek to abandon both sects
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
125
and develop a third, based on yet another philosophy
of vampiric existence? Or a Ventrue elder who has
allied with certain other Kindred of the city in order to
discredit and eventually depose the Toreador prince?
Once the conspiracy's primary goals are decided, then
come up with a number of ways in which initial steps
toward these goals can be accomplished . Look at
broad, general approaches first, and then go to the
most specific - these will become your story seeds .
Think small and concise-the bishop skips a meeting
without any of her templars and doesn't return until
nearly dawn (or perhaps not until the following night),
and one of her childer immediately assumes the worst .
You don't need to flesh out the entire conspiracy
to start with. That can be developed more slowly, as
long as you stay a few steps ahead of your players . Your
players' speculations might even give you some ideas .
Yes, the bishop may be consorting secretly with a
Camarilla elder, but what if that Camarilla elder is
really a Sabbat mole? Or is it the bishop who is the
mole? Look for ways to surprise the troupe and turn
their expectations 90 degrees, but keep the overall
goals and general approaches in mind, even if they're
not obvious to the players . Think of how much you
want to reveal in any given story-don't give away too
many goodies too soon, but don't be too stingy with
them either . Sometimes it takes players a while to
learn to connect the dots .
THE DIRTY BUSINESS
OF POLITICAL INTRIGUES
Political intrigues are not a great deal different
than a conspiracy, except for one important factor -
this time, the players aren't investigating the conspiracy
from the outside, they're part of it . Political
intrigues have a goal, just as conspiracies do, whether
it is to weaken the unity and cooperation in a Camarilla
city before a siege, discredit a rival pack or topple a
tyrannical prince . The players' characters may or may
not have initiated the conspiracy (most likely not,
unless they've risen to such levels that such scheming
is acceptable to their superiors) . They may, in fact, not
realize the full scope of the conspiracy or its ultimate
purpose - only their own assignment, which is but
one step in a long process . Archons may be called in to
help discredit an elder or prince who is no longer
acting in the Camarilla's best interests or lay a trap for
an unknown Sabbat agent among the primogen .
Templars may be acting to further their patron's political
goals, and Inquisitors may be seeking (or creating)
evidence that will expose diabolical connections with
a suspiciously successful bishop's rise to power .
However, by its very nature, political intrigue
demands subtlety. The players must achieve their goals
through negotiation, persuasion, or subtle trickery,
not violence . Violence and threats tend to put Kindred
on the defensive, and make them far less susceptible
to suggestions that further the players' intentions .
Blackmail is also a threat, and useful only as a last
resort, or when exposing the information the subject
wants to protect was their intention all along . Archons
or templars who tend to approach a problem with guns
blazing will not likely be sent on more delicate matters
of intrigue .
You knew the job was dangerous when you took it
There's a reason why many sect officials would
rather fight Lupines than compete in the political
arena . At least with the werewolves, you know who
your enemies are. Serving the sect can mean making
some hard decisions - which is more important, the
good of the Camarilla or the archon's own conscience?
Does the templar blindly obey her bishop's orders,
even if she believes his agenda may ignite a conflict
with the Camarilla that local packs are not prepared to
deal with? How far will the players go to further their
superiors' agendas when that agenda comes into conflict
with their own plans, sense of honor, or outside
loyalties? Will they carry out an assignment they
believe to be totally unjust or based on inaccurate
information, or will they try to do what they feel is
right? As Storyteller, your job is to give the players
some difficult decisions to make, where there are no
clear right and wrong answers, merely a choice of
consequences. Their choices will not only determine
how the story goes, but what consequences they will be
dealing with in future stories as well .
Killing for the cause
Sect officials are sometimes called upon to commit
the very crime they generally investigate - to kill
another Kindred for the good of the sect . However, not
even the Sabbat tolerates blatant murder of its own
members. Such murders must be clandestine by their
very nature, for if it were possible to simply accuse and .
condemn the target by normal means, assassination
would not be necessary . Right?
Remember that the players' characters (even
Assamites) are not automatically "hired guns ." They
are servants of their sect carrying out a mission of
(presumed) political necessity . Whether they realize it
or not, there should always be a strong story reason for
such an assignment . The Storyteller should know all
those reasons-and how the players' success or failure
at their goals will affect the chronicle as a whole .
Frequently, murder is only a cover-up for greater
crimes, and the players should certainly discover there's
more to this assignment than meets the eye . Does the
true reason why they are being ordered to murder a
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
126
_"`
URBAN LEGEND-5
Kindred do not have newspapers, radio or
television stations to disseminate information
among themselves . Such means of communication
would be too easily intercepted, and become
a breach of the Masquerade . Instead, Kindred rely
on a far older means of getting their news: word of
mouth. Stories of all kinds travel through both
sects like wildfire, shared by traveling Gangrel,
Nosferatu chatting on SchreckNET, Toreador
and Ventrue gathered at Elysium, Sabbat packs
gathered for ritae, Tremere apprentices bartering
for secrets with their fellows, and anarchs seeking
to prove how tough they are by what they've faced
(or claim to have seen) . Good tale-tellers can
always find an audience, and the more bizarre,
mysterious, gruesome, or entertaining the story is,
the better, at least among the Damned . Veracity,
of course, is often debatable, but to an audience of
legendary undead, almost anything can sound
possible, under the right circumstances .
Through the centuries, Kindred have always
had their legends . Their history and Traditions
are rooted in them, and the Sabbat, at least in
theory, interprets those legends as dreadfully
real . In the Final Nights, new legends have also
arisen, appropriate to the modern era, that appear
in Kindred stories again and again, with
various mutations - urban legends that may
even have a core of truth at their root, despite the
tabloid nature of countless retellings .
While some such urban legends might be
about places, such as mausoleums or the Cavern
of Lost Souls, most tend to center around
particular events, famous (or notorious) Kindred,
or other supernatural creatures .
Well-known stories of the Nosferatu biker pack
known as the Skullriders, the infamous Thrill
Kill Club, the exploits of anarch leader Salvador
Garcia, or what exactly caused Xaviar to
turn his back on the Camarilla, all provide
grist for the Kindred rumormill .
Storytellers are encouraged to create their
own "urban legends" for their chronicles, both to
add a touch of color and depth to their own World
of Darkness, and to provide possible story seeds for
an ambitious - or simply curious - archon or
templar to investigate, should a legend tickle
their curiosity . Modern legends might even contain
a kernel of truth - though what passes for
"truth" in the World of Darkness can often prove
stranger and more twisted than any fiction .
CHAPTER FIVE : STORYTELLING
1 27
fellow sect member matter to them, or are they content
with the explanation they are given (assuming any
duplicity exists)? What might they discover that leads
them to doubt the righteousness of their purpose? If
they begin to doubt that, will they carry out their
mission or look deeper? A charge that seemed simple
on the surface may turn out to be not simple at all, and
demand that the players choose how they will react to
what they learn.
ESPIONAGE
Only the most trusted servants of the sect (which,
unfortunately, sometimes overlaps with being the most
expendable) are sent on espionage missions . Spies put
their very unlives on the line, as the penalty for being
caught is usually a painful Final Death. While most
missions of espionage will be short forays, with specific
objectives, they are usually part of a much larger intelligence-
gathering campaign, possibly leading up to direct
conflict or preventing the enemy from mounting the
same. The Storyteller should have some idea of the big
picture, even if the players do not, like what their
mission means in terms of their elders' ongoing plans for
war or defense, and just how expendable they really are .
More common espionage stories involve counterespionage
: thwarting the plans of agents of the opposing
sect . These stories are rarely instigated by superiors .
Usually one or more of the characters stumbles across
something suspicious and reports it to the proper
authorities (if they have sufficient evidence to be
believed), or the characters act on it themselves . Note
that the characters need only thwart the oppositions'
plans, not learn the whole story, capture the agents
responsible, or expose an entire conspiracy . This kind
of story can be an excellent opening to a much longer,
complex chronicle, as the players do not necessarily
have to be archons or templars to start, but may earn
that honor as a result of their actions .
Undercover operations most often take place
within the sect . Archons and Inquisitors, in particular,
spend a good deal of their time covertly investigating
their own sectmates . Depending on the degree of
crime their fellows are trying to hide, such investigations
can be hazardous indeed . The Storyteller must
know how far the subject of the investigation will go to
avoid discovery, and who among the Kindred will aid
or hinder the characters in their goals . As enforcers for
the sect, the characters must often do more than
simply thwart the adversary's plans . They must also
attempt to get sufficient proof of her wrongdoing to
convince the local prince, bishop or their own patrons
to bring her to face the sect's brand of justice .
The most dangerous assignment is the deep-cover
mission . While in theory a mole may maintain his
cover for years until he is ordered to take action, that
CIO
kind of mission is rarely given to a sect official, as their
talents are needed elsewhere . However, such an official,
particularly one who has developed a good alternate
identity (see Chapter Three), may be sent on a shortterm
foray, to accomplish a specific task and return
within a specific length of time . A sect official may also
find herself improvising such an alternative identity, if
she chooses to bluff her way out of a tight situation
rather than risk a fight she doesn't think she can win .
Undercover operatives should face all the horrors
and temptations of the "other side," testing all the
values they themselves hold, as well as their loyalties
to their own sect . Undercover Sabbat must hide their
Vinculi and explain any diablerie veins in their auras,
as well as learn to deal with the Camarilla's hierarchy
and strict Masquerade . Undercover Camarilla must
deal with the mixed feelings of loyalty that participating
in Vaulderie brings and the superior attitude most
The BEST-LAID PLANS . . .
Undercover missions are dangerous for a reason:
they very rarely go according to plan . Many
such agents never return . However, just because
one or more players' characters is caught does not
mean their story is over . Even an adversary of the
same sect may not be driven to murder right away .
In that case, it's as important to discover what the
captive really knows, how much he has managed
to report to his superiors, and to then divert
attention away from the object of the mission
before "destroying the evidence" the captive represents
. Both the Camarilla and the Sabbat are
just as eager to capture such spies and interrogate
them, rather than kill them outright . This is, of
course, one reason why undercover agents so
rarely know the big picture surrounding their
goals . Undercover agents are almost by definition
considered expendable by their superiors .
However, this does not mean they are necessarily
expendable to their associates, or that escape
is impossible . Both archon and templar coteries
have been known to go to great risks in order to
rescue a captured comrade, and the Storyteller
should certainly give a good rescue plan a decent
chance of succeeding while making sure the captured
characters endure a sufficiently horrifying
period of captivity while awaiting rescue . Keep in
mind that there may be unknown allies among
the captors as well, who may act just enough to tilt
the balance in favor of the players but never
actually reveal themselves . In short, just because
the players' mission fails doesn't mean the story is
over - only that the ending has changed .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
1 2 8
Sabbat have toward mortal life . Even if her mission is
successful, will the returning archon or templar ever
view the tenets of her own sect in quite the same way
again? Or will she now come under suspicion for
knowing too much?
CHARACTERCENTERED
CHRONICLES
Chronicles may draw upon the internal conflicts
and goals of the players' characters themselves
as the primary source of stories . In that case, the
Storyteller creates outside events and interactions
with other characters to bring those internal conflicts
sharply into focus, or to directly challenge a
player character's personal goals . Storytellers should
also look for chances to provide internal character
conflicts in conjunction with more conventional
plot-driven storylines, to give the players more than
simply the goals of their mission to be concerned
about. A story should be about more than what
characters do- it should also touch on why they are
doing it and how their actions affect them and their
fellow Kindred personally .
LAYING TI-IC ODDS
Surviving as a vampire is playing the odds .
Surviving while holding on to the vestiges of one's
own Humanity with the tips of one's claws is really
playing the odds - and the Beast has stacked the
deck. For some characters, though, it's the only
game worth playing. Possibly they have some religious
faith, held over from their mortal youth, or
they cling to a particular code of ethics or honor .
Perhaps they are trying to atone for deeds in their
past, or just plain resent being made one of the
Damned. For these characters, this underlying internal
conflict provides an additional dimension for
all they do, including their duties as a sect official .
These characters have a lot to struggle with, and it's
the Storyteller's job to see that struggle given form .
Present these characters with choices that challenge
their humanity (and Humanity) in the line of
duty. A mortal has witnessed too much - should
they kill her or go to the trouble of arranging a
plausible cover story? Will she be missed? What if an
altered memory resurfaces? Are there any other
options? Many of these situations will have no clear
right answer, when a character must choose between
the lesser of two wrongs . How will the
character justify his actions to his own conscience,
Path or code of ethics? When does the good of the
sect - or the will of certain elders - take precedence
over his own sense of honor? Where does he
draw the line and what might tempt him to cross it? I
i
Even the Sabbat templar or Inquisitor who has
abandoned Humanity for a Path must still struggle to
advance on his chosen Path or at least maintain his
position . In addition to the demands of his Path, he has
also taken on a responsibility, whether that is to serve
the interests of his patron or the interests of the whole
Sabbat by ferreting out the infernal from their ranks .
Will there be times when the demands of duty come
into conflict with the principles of his Path, or his own
sense of honor? While not every story will demand the
same degree of hard decisions from a character, the
Storyteller should look for opportunities for the character
to define the limits of her honor by what choices
she makes . Conflicts between loyalty to a packmate or
fellow templar versus loyalty to the bishop ; conflicts
based on her mortal past and associations ; even personal
likes and dislikes within the local Sabbat
community all provide challenging roleplaying opportunities
for the player, and reveal the internal struggle
within her character's soul .
Whether the player's character is striving for personal
redemption or slowly coming to terms with his
own damnation, the strength of his Humanity or
commitment to a chosen Path is best revealed under
duress. If a player has described her character as having
a strong aversion to harming children, bring out that
aversion by having her character face a particularly
inhuman child-vampire, or have her antagonist hold a
group of children hostage while demanding her character
release a notorious prisoner from captivity . If
another player says his character seeks to lower his
generation by diablerie, make him the target of a
dangerous would-be diablerist two generations higher,
or allow him to diablerize a powerful elder suspiciously
easy to overcome, whose soul now constantly fights
him for control even as he attempts to carry out his
duties . Unless such internal character aspects are
brought out and tested in the course of a story at least
once in a while, they are meaningless . Used properly,
such characteristics add emotional depth to a character,
define what "personal horror" means to her, and
provide excellent opportunities for roleplaying .
I NEVER PROMISED YOU A ROSE GARDEN
A character without any sense of honor or personal
ethics, however adapted to the needs of unlife,
will probably not be selected as a sect official by either
sect . The servants of the sect must have at least some
sense of duty to their position and be proven trustworthy
and competent, in order to be considered for the
job. Note that this does not necessarily mean a candidate
must follow the ethics of Humanity, only that a
potential candidate for either position must have demonstrated
his suitability for the job at hand, which at
the very least, means they can follow orders and get
CHAPTER FIVE : STORYTELLING
129
things done . They must also be deemed capable of
loyalty to something greater than themselves, whether
that is the Camarilla or Sabbat as a whole, or a
particular bishop, cardinal or justicar .
In the World of Darkness, very few issues can be
clearly delineated into black and white, right and
wrong. Almost all ethical issues are in shades of gray,
where there simply are no right answers, only degrees
of wrong. Whether a character serves his sect out of a
sense of personal loyalty to an individual, a belief in the
validity of the sect's cause, or just for his own personal
advancement and the perks that come with the job, he
still makes decisions that reflect his personal ethics .
The Storyteller should design a story to present choices
to a character that challenge those ethics . Is he willing
sacrifice a companion if it means finally luring an old
enemy into a trap? How far will she go in pursuit of a
goal? Whose safety, if anyone's, does he value over his
own? Does she prefer a straight fight or to stake her
quarry from behind? Does he shrink at risking his own
unlife in an uncertain situation? Does the character
have a dark secret she will try to protect at all costs?
Does he have a secret ambition, vice, weakness, prey
exclusion, someone he cares for above all others, or a
particular enemy he wants above all to destroy, or a
vendetta he would do anything to carry out?
While providing an interesting story, the Storyteller
should look for ways of presenting the character
with significant and difficult choices that reveal or test
the character's values . These are significant in that the
decision the character makes will affect the outcome of
the story and difficult in that the character must choose
between options that all carry consequences . While
some may have a lesser or greater chance of success,
none are guaranteed, and none are without some degree
of risk, or a potential price to be paid . If the character
chooses to sacrifice a comrade, it is entirely possible that
the comrade will die, or (especially if the comrade is
another player's character) if he survives, will know he
was judged expendable . While surprises may happen
due to circumstances outside the character's knowledge,
to take away the consequences connected to his choice
cheapens the significance of it. If a player puts a lot of
thought and roleplaying effort into how her character
faces such dilemmas, don't make her decision meaningless
by a Storyteller deus ex machina . Paying a price for
success is a time-honored convention of storytelling .
The player characters must make the choice as to how
high a price they are willing to pay .
It is up to the Storyteller to present these difficult
choices and tailor them to be relevant to the character's
own personality and values . For a well-established
character, those choices may be obvious - an archon
who deeply admires his sire might be reluctant to
believe his sire guilty of conspiring against the prince,
or a templar's loyalty to her bishop may be severely
tested when she learns that the bishop deliberately
allowed two packs of Sabbat to walk into a Camarilla
trap as a ploy to discredit a rival for the archbishopric
of the city . For a newer character with less personal
history to draw upon, such choices create that history,
and help define what that character's values truly are .
A CHILLING SENSE OF HORROR
How does a Storyteller provide that necessary
sense of personal horror in a chronicle? How does she
reach players already jaded by excessive blood, gore
and body counts, whose characters delight in running
down old ladies on their motorcycles, or refer to
mortals as "juicebags" and seem totally oblivious to any
semblance of compassion?
Horror, in its most basic form, relies on three
things : it's unexpected, it's frightening and it hits at
gut level. Horror is at its most convincing when it
presents an unexpected and frightening threat to something
that matters to the character, either herself or
someone else she cares about .
Horror plays hide-and-seek with player expectations
. A Sabbat haven may be in an upscale suburb and
appear perfectly normal and pristine, yet the players
get an uneasy feeling as they explore it because it isn't
what they expected. They begin to worry what is
hidden behind every locked door, every unexplored
room. Denying them their expectations only raises the
level of suspense, until the real horror is discovered . As
with building suspense, less is more - a mere suggestion
of possibilities, such as the scent of old blood,
begins to set up the expectation of things far worse to
come . Horror can also rely on surprise, appearing when
characters least expect it, or believe themselves to
finally be safe . Or it can come from unforeseen sources,
such as realizing that a trusted ally has betrayed them,
or that they have just left the prince in the company of
an assassin sent to kill her.
Horror is frightening . It preys on the characters'
deepest fears, whether in regard to their own unlives,
the well-being of a companion or ally, their sense of
honor, their status in the sect, or their mastery of
their internal Beast . Most of all, horror often represents
the unknown, which is one of the few things
that can terrify even an elder . It's one thing to be
familiar with what kind of enemy you face, but it's
quite another when you cannot identify who or
what seems to be hunting you, nor why. Horror can
also come from within . The Beast is never far from
the surface, struggling to claw through a vampire's
veneer of Humanity or the ethics of her Path in
order to indulge in unrestrained savagery . Frenzy is
worrisome enough for a sect official, whose mission
may depend on him keeping his cool . But to lose
control of one's own self through possession or as
the target of another's Dominate or Presence not
only risks the mission at hand, but is terrifying on a
deeply personal level - can the victim ever again
trust her own judgment once she realizes she has
been so compromised?
Horror is threatening . If the character doesn't
care, it is nearly impossible to horrify him . What do
your players' characters care about? What do they seek
most to defend? Their own existence, certainly, but
what else? Their status, their position in the sect?
Their reputation and honor? Their packmates or allies?
The bishop or cardinal they serve? Their sect?
Mortal family members, or their own hard-won blocks
of city turf? Once you know what the characters will
protect, you know what kinds of threats will move
them to react . While some characters value very little
above their own self-interest, still others put great
store by their duty to a superior, or take pride in their
reputations, whatever they may be . Some might go to
great lengths to achieve a particular goal, whether it is
to succeed at a given assignment or to carry out a
vendetta against an old enemy or rival . Some will
shrug off the Final Deaths of half their pack but nearly
hit frenzy at any aspersion cast against their own
courage . Some cling to the ideals of their sect as the
only stable thing in the eternal night -but what will
they do if those ideals are proven hollow or the leader
they trusted betrays them?
Horror is also most effective when used in moderation,
and in sharp contrast with its exact opposite :
a sense of safety and security, of being in control .
Gratuitous amounts of gore, blood, violence and macabre
tortures tend to dull the effect such images have
on those who experience them, whether player or
player's character . After a while, such things become
almost dull. The players no longer take any of it
seriously . Atrocities committed on a dozen faceless
mortals are meaningless to a Sabbat character, and
even the most humane of Camarilla archons can
become hardened to casual murder in time . However,
when appearing in unexpected places or at a time and
manner the players are not anticipating, when they
feel secure, a single frightening or gruesome image
makes a powerful impression indeed, particularly when
it strikes at something far closer to home . Horror is
strengthened by dramatic presentation, the building
up of tension to a sharp peak, or the sudden and
dramatic violation of the character's sense of security .
Save your most shocking ammunition for when it will
matter- don't waste too much time with incidents
that the players' characters will consider mere window
dressing . Lull your players into thinking they're safe
CHAPTER NE: STORYTELLING
131
and in control and then show them that their characters
aren't as safe as they thought .
The most powerful horror occurs offstage - and
is made all the more fearsome by the players' own
speculation . In many cases, the remaining evidence
of an atrocity that has already occurred is far more
powerful than witnessing the deed itself. This forces
the players' imaginations to fill in the gaps, drawing
them into the story, making them participants rather
than simply an audience . The treasured necklace of a
missing coterie member, left pinned to the wall of
their communal haven by an unknown enemy, carries
with it the combined threats to their comrade
and the taunt that their own haven is no longer
inviolable . A small pile of ash, accompanied by a
bloody stake, discovered in a trusted ally's haven
demands answers - was their ally the victim or the
killer? The unexplained scent of fresh blood where
none is expected spurs an almost frenzied search for
its cause . The realization that instead of locking the
wight out of the sewer complex, the characters have
sealed it in with them raises the suspense - and the
players' expectations - to a whole new level .
FOLLOW THE LEADER
Becoming an archon, templar or Inquisitor means
more than the fact that your players have just earned
themselves some sect status and authority, which, in
most cases, they have . It also means that they have
assumed a responsibility that they have agreed to
consider over and above their own personal agendas
(in theory, anyway) . It means they have declared their
loyalty to their sect, and to at least one superior
representative of that sect : a justicar, bishop, archbishop,
senior Inquisitor, whoever . And it means they
have agreed to take that superior's orders, whether
they necessarily agree with them or not . It does not
mean their unlives have become easier, only that the
scale of their problems has changed (and those problems
have likely increased in quantity) .
MOTIVATIONS TO SERVE
Why do sect officials do what they do, risk their
precious hides and unlives in the service of the Camarilla
or the Sabbat? Why have your players' characters taken
on this duty, and what do they expect to get out of it?
Even more importantly from the Storyteller's viewpoint,
how can you present your characters with stories
that challenge them, not only in their abilities to get the
job done, but on a more intimate, personal level as well?
How do you test their souls as well as their wits, and
make each story meaningful as well as entertaining?
Sect Idealist-Some sect officials truly believe in
the ideals of their sects . These characters have also
accepted the party line regarding the evils of the
opposing sect, most likely based on hearsay or propaganda.
But how long will their idealism last in the face
of their leaders' hypocrisy, or when encountering
equally idealistic members of the opposition? Can they
trust or work with packmates or fellow archons whose
ideals are not so high, or who serve for their own ends?
How do their ideals lead them to approach their duties
differently than their fellows?
Cynic - These archons and templars might call
themselves pragmatic or realistic ; others might call
them pessimists. Perhaps they serve just as loyally, but
their vision (or so they believe) is clear - they know
their sect is wrong as often as it's right, and that their
leaders always have their own agendas . If you have to
break a few heads to get the job done, then so be it, the
bastards probably deserved it anyway . But how far will
they go in the pursuit of their duty to a sect they have
lost some faith in? What keeps them going, even when
the going gets rough, and the risks get high? What
values do they still cherish and how far will they go to
defend them?
Devotion to Duty- Some archons and templars
take their responsibilities very seriously because their
sense of duty and honor demands it . They might have
been soldiers or held other positions of responsibility
in their breathing days, or they believe that once
they've given their word, no further questions need be
asked . But when honor and duty come into conflict,
how can they justify themselves? Is the end more
important than the means to achieve it? What will
they do when the obedience and loyalty they have
long given their superiors comes into conflict with
doing what they also know is just? Will they condemn
and punish the innocent because that is what their
duty demands?
Ass-Kisser-These characters have it all figured
out. If you want to succeed, you need to know people
at the top of the food chain . They're out to prove their
value to the ones who matter and make themselves
look good in the bargain. Some might seem to do
remarkably well for themselves . But when the shit hits
the fan, who can they call? Will they be able to pursue
their own ambitions without pissing off everyone else
around them? Or is a lesson in consequences going to
hit them upside the head when they least expect it?
Bully - Screw the party line and the politics .
These characters aren't in it for anything but themselves,
and a chance to prove how tough they are at the
expense of anyone not strong enough to stand up to
them. But those who rely on bullying tactics will
eventually find themselves facing someone who isn't
so easily intimidated . What happens when they find
themselves out of favor and on the streets alone,
without backup? What goes around, eventually comes
ARCHON S AND TEMPLARS
132
around. How hard will they fall, and will they learn
anything from the experience?
Vendetta - These characters pursue their duty
with an eye out for the chance to get their revenge on
whoever hurt or betrayed them in the past, or just plain
pissed them off. Their desire for revenge is almost an
obsession . It colors their judgment and strongly influences
their actions where the target of their vendetta
is concerned. Characters on a vendetta make very
good patsies, as their drive for vengeance is so predictable,
an adversary need only point them in the right
direction and away they'll go . Will hatred and desire
for vindication blind them to the truth, or cost them
what remains of their morality? Will they disregard
their responsibilities and honor in order to fulfill their
desire for "satisfaction"?
Redemption - Some characters strive to redeem
themselves by attempting to do something constructive
and "good" with their unlives, or perhaps they seek
to repay a debt by devoting their own unlives to serving
that same sect . Whatever their reasons, they view their
duty as far more than a job ; it is also their means of
expunging their pasts and earning grace for their souls .
But how will they balance their desire to do the right
thing with the shifting moralities and the harsh realities
of the World of Darkness? How will they know
what the "right thing" is and how far can they bend the
precepts of their own code of ethics before it breaks and
leaves them floundering?
Personal Loyalty - These characters give their
devotion not to the sect, but to a particular leader,
whether that individual is a justicar, bishop or Inquisitor
. Loyalty may vary in degree, and is not necessarily
blind, but it is the foundation upon which these
characters base their service to their sect . If it comes
down to a choice between their loyalties to their
leader, their loyalty to their sect, or their own unlives,
though, where will their allegiances truly lie?
Fanatic - These characters can scare even their
own sectmates with their ardor for the cause . Their
obsessive beliefs allow no room for questions or doubt,
but they can easily be misdirected by clever antagonists
into accepting what appears to fall within their
beliefs as the apparent truth . Will they be able to see
past their own blind spots and recognize the truth
before rewriting it to match their expectations? Or will
they be so blinded by their beliefs that they miss
obvious warning signs of trouble, and end up as martyrs
for their cause?
OE HUBRIS AND HYPOCRISY
Sect officials see both sides of their societies, the
bold and righteous mask each sect presents to the vast
majority of its members, and the underside, with all the
attendant treachery and ugliness . They see - and
indeed, participate in - the charades their leaders
must sometimes put on to maintain order among the
rank and file . By virtue of their position, they can
become privy to things that the ordinary Kindred
never knows about and for the good of the sect must
never discover. Both sects make compromises between
their ideals and maintaining their own stability -
neither welcomes actual change . The archons, templars
and Inquisitors are the ones who must carry out those
necessary compromises, to maintain order or at least
the appearance of it on behalf of the sect's leaders .
Whether that means enforcing a Masquerade the
Sabbat archbishop would never admit publicly must be
kept or methodically hunting down a Ventrue's rebellious
childe before she flees to the anarchs, there are
clearly times when what the sect says and what its
servants must do come into conflict . Sect officials are
sometimes called to risk injury or Final Death to
defend their sects' ideals, even though some of those
ideals may well be lies . Nobody likes to think they're
risking their necks for a lie . How then do your players'
characters justify their positions, and the choices they
make, to their untitled sectmates, to their superiors in
the sect, and to themselves?
Cracks in the Ivory Tower
The Camarilla maintains that the Masquerade
is all that stands between the Kindred as a race and
certain extinction at the hands of mortals . The
interpretation of the Masquerade and the Traditions
rests solely in the hands of the elders, who
freely bend the Masquerade and the Traditions as
they please to suit their own goals, yet use the
slightest infraction as a weapon to keep the young in
line . The Ivory Tower is a refuge for the elder elite,
built to defend their interests against the ambitions
of their descendants . The justicars have become the
ultimate practical authority, greater even than
princes -at a justicar's word, a prince may well fall
- and yet the justicars are elders themselves, with
centuries of ambition and accumulated prestation
debt to balance against the power of their office .
The archons are the eyes, ears and word of the
justicars and the Inner Council, independent agents
authorized to investigate, interpret and enforce the
Traditions . Yet they are for the most part the enforcers
of the status quo, and the "crimes" they investigate
most fervently are those that undermine the elder
foundations of the sect . The Camarilla proclaims its
rule of order, but status and clever use of political
acumen can earn immunity from justice, while those
on the fringes of Kindred society whose favor carries
no prestation value often become convenient scapegoats
when examples must be made .
CHAPTER FIVE: STORYTELLING
1 33
Inside the Cult of Caine
The Sabbat claims freedom as the natural right of
all Cainites, but the sect recognizes the need for
certain constraints upon its members for its own survival
. In theory, the sect values individualism and
independence. In practice, however, it relies upon
ideology, ritae, the Vaulderie and the threat of its
greatest adversary to keep the sect from splintering
into its component pacts and factions . The Sabbat
thrives on its cult mentality, encouraging its members
to believe themselves free from the chains of mortal
ethics while enforcing its own code with ruthless
efficiency. It claims to interact with mortals only as
predators, yet maintains its own unspoken Masquerade
for the same reasons the Camarilla does . Its leaders
proclaim the rights of all Sabbat, yet use any means at
their disposal to keep the rank and file in line and their
ferocity pointed firmly at the Camarilla . The
Inquisition's authority extends much further than the
investigation of diabolism - they have become the
witch-hunters of the Sword of Caine . No one is immune
from their scrutiny . The templars act as the
personal bodyguards, agents, and enforcers of the Sabbat
leader they serve, supporting the status quo out of
personal loyalties or pure self-interest .
The Code of Milan demands that all Sabbat put
the good of the sect above all other loyalties, even their
own unlives . "The good of the Sabbat" has become the
principle by which all actions are judged and justified .
It's amazing how often what benefits the sect also
benefits a clever or ambitious Cainite . Or more often,
how a clever, ambitious Cainite can use the rhetoric of
the sect to his own advantage . After all, if one is acting
for the good of the Sabbat, any deceit, treachery, theft,
cruelty, abuse or curtailment of the rights of one's
fellow Sabbat can be justified, particularly by a templar,
paladin or Red Robe acting in their "official" capacity .
Chinks in the armor
Both the Camarilla and the Sabbat claim ideals
that they do not in fact follow, but the real hypocrisy
of the sects can found on more personal levels . Perhaps
(that is, "hopefully") even your players' characters are
not immune . How do they see themselves, and what
they do to carry out their duties? How does what they
do make them feel about themselves? What would
they do or not do for the good of the sect? Given
opportunity, will they be any less hypocritical in pursuit
of their goals than the sects they serve, or whom
they will really protect?
Many sect leaders present all they do in terms of
how it benefits the sect, though they clearly benefit
personally as well . Some raise creative self-justification
to an art form, to the point where they may well honestly
believe what they do is righteous and necessary, for the
good of the sect . Such hubris is hardly rare, even among
mortal politicians, and it is probably even more common
among the selfish undead . In time, the politician or
the cop can identify so strongly with his office that it
becomes impossible to separate out what is good for him
personally and what is good for "the people" he claims
to serve . Some may have started out with the best of
intentions, but realized that to rise to where they could
finally "do some good," they might have to cut a few
corners and make a few deals along the way . But that
kind of rationalization can be a deceptive path to tread .
At what point do they turn their backs on their ideals?
Or do they continue to use whatever means necessary to
achieve their goals, because they still truly believe that
they're serving a higher purpose?
As sect officials, your players' characters have
made a commitment to uphold the sect, thrown their
personal status, ego and deathless future in with the
sect and its hierarchy . Just as cops stand together
against outsiders who would put limits on their jurisdiction
or powers of law enforcement, so too do the
sect officials stand together to preserve their authority
and prestige, even if they know some of their fellows
are abusing the system. What places limits on one
archon or Inquisitor places limits on them all, and no
sect official wants that . Would your players' characters
accept curtailment of their prerogatives as sect officials
if it meant that a brutal and ruthless fellow-archon or
templar would be reined in, or would they consider
that too high a price to pay? Not that they would abuse
their power-of course not-but they have to be able
to fulfill their duties, right?
You might want to show your players how some of
their fellow archons or Anointed have fallen, those who
seem willing to use any means to achieve their ends, or
abuse their power for their own advantage . But don't
stop there . Provide them with opportunities to stretch
their principles, or to commit small abuses of their
power in order to achieve something that's important to
them. Entangle them in ties of prestation or blackmail
with someone they find contemptible . Let them see
what they have become, and see whether they will be
horrified . . . or full of self-justifying excuses .
Of course, your players may not be of such delicate
sensibilities, but even so, they are bound to have things
they think they will never do, whether that's run from
a fight, betray a packmate, abuse an innocent, or kill
for the sheer thrill of killing . Or there may be things
they believe in, such as their value to their sect, the
truth about how a companion met her Final Death, or
their own incorruptible integrity . Whatever it is, test
it. Give them a chance to give in a little in return for
something they want, see how far even the strongest
can learn to bend, and how they explain their actions
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
134
The No-WIN SCENARIO
The World of Darkness is a twisted reflection
of our own, where greed, cruelty, selfishness and
despair are far more prevalent than generosity,
kindness and hope, particularly among the
Damned. High ideals are tarnished with bitter
pragmatism or rotted away from within by selfinterest
and hypocrisy . The demands of their
duties (and the creative plot twists the Storyteller
throws in their paths) often require sect officials
to make difficult, soul-searching, or desperate
choices between what they would like to do, and
what they feel must be done in order to uphold
their responsibilities to their superiors and their
sect. They don't always succeed - sometimes
their only choice for plugging a hole in the
Masquerade may be to kill a mortal whose only
crime was learning too much about the creature
who destroyed his family. Sometimes their best
efforts will not prevent the bishop they serve from
falling prey to the treachery of her rival, leaving
them not only without a patron to serve, but
possibly in danger themselves as loose ends that
need tying up .
That being said, no player likes to lose all the
time, nor do they enjoy being faced with a situation
where every move they make is doomed from
the start . While it may be more realistic to have
them fail more often than they succeed, even
more in keeping with the mood of Vampire and
the World of Darkness. . . well, let's face it -
losing most of the time isn't much fun . Your
players are apt to become frustrated, bored and
look for other ways to spend their free time .
Try to maintain a balance in how often the
players succeed in their story goals, and how often
they do not . Success should never be a cakewalk .
Perhaps they had to take extraordinary risks to
rescue a prisoner from the Sabbat or lost someone
valuable to them in the course of tracking down
the source of a virulent blood-curse that had
afflicted half the packs in the city . Success in a
story can be partial, or it can come with a substantial
price tag, but on average your players should
succeed more often than they fail . The occasional
failure then becomes memorable in a way that
motivates them to move onward, and can provide
future story seeds . Perhaps next time the Ventrue
primogen won't be so lucky, or the anarchs so
well-prepared .
Make them work for it, but don't make
it impossible.
afterward . The whole point of hubris as a theme is how
even the most despicable of deeds can become justified
in the eyes of the doer, and that even the most noble
or strong-willed of characters can stumble or fall .
ALTERNATIVE CHRONICLES
Chronicles built around sect officials offer a wide
range of possibilities -while you may just allow all the
players to be part of an archon coterie or group of templars
attached to a particular bishop, here are some variations
on the theme for you and your players to consider .
ARCHON AND TEMpLAR PRELUDES
Whether your players' characters are long-running
characters who have been recruited by a justicar or bishop
to their new duties or have been specifically created with
these roles in mind, how and why they accepted their new
positions may be worth exploring as a story in itself . There
are no universal requirements in either sect for these
official positions . Each justicar, bishop or senior Inquisitor
makes his decisions based on his own set of criteria and
current needs, not unlike the way a sire selects a childe .
Who that justicar, bishop, cardinal or senior Inquisitor is,
what his motivations and current plans might be, or his
reasons for recruiting the players' characters, is up to you,
the Storyteller . Were the characters recruited as a group,
or individually at different times? Is it just one or two of
the coterie who are actually archons, with the others as
their servires and allies, or does the coterie represent all
the templars that the archbishop of that city has at her
command? Were the characters a local coterie that got
drawn into a plot of interest to a justicar because they were
in the wrong place at the right time or discovered
something they weren't supposed to know about? Playing
out a "recruiting story" gives established characters a
reason for accepting their new roles as sect officials . Such
a story also allows new characters a chance to get established
arid familiar to both the players arid the Storyteller,
and starts creating the detailed character background
needed for future storylines .
A good introductory story can set the tone and
mood for many future stories to come . Does the archbishop
have a trial period for templar candidates where
they must prove their competence or worthiness? Does
the justicar choose the characters because they're
already involved in something that he's very interested
in, or is he simply looking to fill out a roster of
useful agents? Do the Inquisitors have formal initiations
and oaths, or tests the candidate must pass in
order to prove her loyalty to the sect and ability to
resist infernal temptation? Does an older, experienced
archon or templar take an interest in one or more of the
characters and serve as a mentor to them, providing
advice or hints that help them learn the ropes? Or is
there another who is jealous or suspicious of the new
recruits, and becomes their rival and chief annoyance
as they are trying to prove themselves?
The DIVERSIFIED COTERIE
While sect officials occasionally work together in
coteries, this is not the usual case . Most archons tend
to work on their own, or in pairs or trios . A particular
bishop's templars are rarely all on duty simultaneously,
nor are they necessarily from the same pack, or even on
good terms with each other . But if you have a group of
five or more players, what do you do with them all?
Consider broadening the coterie's assets and abilities
by diversification - perhaps one or two of them
can be the archons, while others can be their servires,
who support them but have concerns and priorities of
their own as well . Others might even be their ghouls .
Particularly in the Camarilla, ghouls are useful associates
to have, due to their more contemporary mix of
skills (such as computer programming or familiarity
with modern pop culture), and the fact that they can
act in daylight when Kindred cannot . Kindred who act
as part of a group like this have the advantage of
anonymity . They can do things an archon cannot,
either because the archon is too well known, or must
put in an appearance at Elysium that night . But while
the archon is at Elysium keeping the Toreador primogen
busy, the members of her coterie can be searching the
Toreador's haven for blackmail evidence .
An Inquisitor coterie usually consists of a mix of
Inquisitors and templars, but might also include a few
Cainites who are not visibly associated with the Inquisitors,
who aid in undercover investigations . These
additional agents might have useful skills, education
or contacts that allow them to go where the Inquisitors
or templars cannot . Perhaps one is a Nosferatu, whose
contacts with other Cainites can provide valuable
information to the Inquisitors . Perhaps another one
has been a member of a number of war parties, and thus
has old war comrades scattered in packs throughout
the northeastern states with whom he can share blood,
swap war stories, and also hear rumors of great interest
to the Inquisition about the local Licks .
Templars not only serve the bishop but are members
of packs and must also frequently interact with the
templars of other Sabbat leaders . Consider a chronicle
where the players are templars serving three different
Sabbat leaders, either in the same city or involved in a
siege. For the good of the sect, the templars must
interact, possibly working together on a delicate matter
that concerns them all equally, though their masters
may not necessarily agree . Or have only one or two of
your players' characters actually be templars, and have
the others be their old pack members, who can get
involved in their business as it suits them . This is a good
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
136
approach if you have certain players who cannot attend
game sessions regularly-if they're there, they will have
something to do, if not, the chronicle doesn't stall.
Whatever the mix of characters you have to work
with, make sure that each one has some interesting and
unique abilities and backgrounds that make them an
asset to the coterie as a whole, and satisfy the player's
desire to be unique and cool . This also means you
should tailor the story around the different abilities of
all the characters, not just the archons or templars .
Make sure each character has something to contribute
to the coterie's success, and sufficient "screen time"
during a game session to feel as if they're important to
the story. Look for ways to make a given story or
mission personally important to at least one character
in the coterie, or feature something from their background.
Does a character know a foreign language or
have a specialization in biosciences or finance? Find a
way to make those skills useful by interpreting clues for
their comrades . Does the character have contacts or
even childer in another city? Allow her to use those
contacts to find a safe haven or to arrange a meeting
with the elusive Malkavian primogen . Was the character
a cop in mortal life? Give him an edge in talking
his way through the local precinct station to find the
police report from a suspicious fire eight years ago .
BOTH SIDES OF THE FENCE
If you have a mature group of players who enjoy
both Camarilla and Sabbat chronicles, consider asking
them to create characters for two different coteries
who operate in roughly the same area . One coterie will
be Camarilla archons (and their supporting servires
and allies), and one of Sabbat Anointed, either a mix
of Inquisitors and templars, or just templars . Alternate
between the two coteries, playing the Camarilla characters
one session, and the Sabbat ones the next .
Depending on the storyline each is following, they
may even come into conflict with each other, with the
Storyteller playing the other sect's characters (at least
until the players realize who they're facing) .
This kind of chronicle can be made even more
interesting by providing a storyline that is broader
than sect politics - a mystery that is of vital interest
to both sides, and originates from sources unknown to
either. This could be anything from the threat of a
really major (live on 60 Minutes!) shattering of the
Masquerade to a particularly dangerous and crafty
Cainite lost to Wassail, or to a mysterious blood-borne
epidemic that appears to be designed to wipe vampires
from the face of the earth . Will the characters become
enemies or uneasy allies with their opposite numbers?
Can either coterie overcome their own distrust and
antipathy of the other side and the objections of their
elders, who find it easier to blame their traditional
t
enemies than find out the truth? Perhaps some members
of one coterie have a history with their opposite
numbers, such as previous altercations or an alliance
that predates the sects . Maybe a character on one side
is related by blood to one on the other . Look for ways
to play upon the real conflicts between the sects as well
as reasons they might need to communicate, if not
cooperate, in the face of a greater threat than either
can face alone . Even a good conflict can be a lot more
satisfying when the characters on the opposing side
have personalities and history of their own.
ONE ON ONE
A chronicle based around a sect official also provides
a great opportunity for only one player and the
Storyteller, played either face-to-face as a regular tabletop
story, or even over the Internet . Having only a
single player-protagonist allows the Storyteller to focus
on the background, ambitions, and motivations of
that player character as she seeks to fulfill her duties to
her sect as well as deal with how those duties affect her
personally . Having a single character also opens up
different kinds of stories not feasible with a coterie,
particularly long-term undercover investigations or
high-risk missions (see Chapter Four for more ideas) .
A single player character also has far more opportunity
to be developed in greater depth over the course of the
chronicle, without having to balance the desires and
needs of multiple players and characters . That character
becomes in effect the star of her own show .
Another use for a one-on-one chronicle is to fill in
backstory : to play out scenes or incidents that occurred
in a character's past, in order to create a more richly
detailed history for him . That history can then be used
by the Storyteller as reference for making future stories
more personal for that character . Playing through parts
of a character's backstory, rather than simply highlighting
it in a paragraph of background description,
makes it more real to both the player and the Storyteller.
That rooftop pursuit of a Gangrel turncoat in
Detroit or that grueling night of interrogation and
torture at the hands of a Tremere Quaestor suddenly
becomes far more than a paragraph on a page - it
becomes a memory that means something to both the
player character and the Storyteller . Note that if you
are playing out an incident in a character's backstory,
the character may appear to be at extreme risk, but she
will never actually meet Final Death, since it's pretty
obvious that no matter what else happened to her, she
did survive the incident .
SECT OFFICIALS AS ADVERSARIES
While most of this book assumes the players' characters
are sect officials, that need not always be the case .
Depending on the needs of your chronicle, archons,
CHAPTER FIVE : STORYTELLING
137
Inquisitors and templars also make formidable and persistent
adversaries for your players. Whether the characters
are in fact guilty of a crime deserving such attention is not
necessarily relevant, only that they are under suspicion of
being so, and find themselves suddenly put on the defensive
by powerful agents of their own sect . If they are
innocent (at least of the current charges), they may be
forced to turn investigator themselves in order to not only
clear their own names, but bring the real culprits to the
attention of the proper authorities . If they are guilty, the
investigation of an archon or Inquisitor into their affairs
is a perfectly plausible consequence for the Storyteller to
introduce. The investigating official need not be infallible,
of course, but the players should have to work hard
to get themselves off the hook, especially if they truly
deserve it.
Even if your players' characters are sect officials,
another archon, templar or Inquisitor can prove to be
a plausible and difficult adversary . Templars of different
Sabbat leaders often come into conflict, especially
if the leaders they serve are also rivals in some way, and
rivalries between templars serving the same leader are
not unknown . And while archons are less likely to
have rivalries as deadly as those between templars,
they aren't necessarily all going to see eye to eye on
various issues . They may even come into conflict
unknowingly, as a result of the poor communications
between the different justicars, or because they are
acting independently without contact from their patron.
Or the players' primary adversary in a story may
turn out to be an official of the opposing sect, who has
all the contacts, agents and abilities described elsewhere
in this book as appropriate for them .
As with any other adversary, a sect official should
not be easy to simply beat up, intimidate, or take out of
action . He should either be of sufficient age and
experience to make him more than a match for even
two or three of the coterie together (but perhaps not all
of them at once, if he's stupid enough to take on those
odds), or he should have sufficient political or social
connections that the players cannot use brute force or
intimidation against him without suffering embarrassing
repercussions ("Really, losing your temper like
that, and at the prince's reception! I can't take you
anywhere, can I?") . These repercussions may come
from their own superiors and from the local Kindred
rumor mill ("I daresay he must be good for something,
but how many Ming vases does one usually need
broken in a single evening?") . And of course, if the
players are not sect officials themselves, annoying one
is never a good way to guarantee a long and troublefree
eternity-a vampire can hold a grudge for a very,
very long time indeed .

Some say that progress is purely the child of war,
that humanity's search for a bigger rock or stouter
club is responsible for the vast majority of technological
advancement .
In this respect, the Kindred are similar indeed to
the mortals they so casually dismiss . Most of the
advancements the Kindred have made, the discoveries
they've unearthed, were brought about by their own
ongoing war . Winning - or even surviving - the
Jyhad requires an edge .
The archons and templars have had century
upon century to refine that edge, and they've gone
about it with single-minded purpose . The following
paragraphs represent a sampling of their creations,
combination Disciplines, high-level Disciplines and
even rumored rituals of Thaumaturgy almost un-
APPENDIX : TOOLS OF THE TRADE
139
known outside the ranks of the Quaesitors (or the
Inquisitors) . Some are unique to the archons, some
to the Sabbat's Anointed, while others are found on
both sides of the sect division .
While it's not inconceivable that some of these
powers might have been taught outside the ranks, as it
were, most of them are going to be well-kept secrets,
hidden weapons in the Jyhad . The archons don't want
the Sabbat, or even other elders of the Camarilla,
knowing about some of these powers, let alone getting
their claws on them . The same holds true in reverse, of
course . Thus, while it is entirely up to the Storyteller
if she wants to allow non-archon/templar Kindred
access to any of these powers, a character would have
to have a significant reason for knowing the other
side's secrets under most circumstances .
COMBINATION
DISCIPLINES
QUICKEN SIGHT
AuSPEX •, CELERITY
The hand is not quicker than the eye when the
eye belongs to an archon or templar with this
power. Quicken Sight allows the character to see
fast-moving objects in detail that even Heightened
Senses alone cannot reveal . A character with
this power can focus on and follow a single card
while the deck is shuffled, track the single loaded
chamber in a game of Russian roulette, read the
headlines on a newspaper as he drives past the
newsstand at 60 mph or even pick out subliminal
images in film .
System: The player spends one blood point to
activate this power, which lasts for a scene . Any time
the character wishes to see, follow or examine something
that is moving too quickly for normal observation,
the player must make a Wits + Alertness roll (difficulty
based on how quickly the item is moving, but normally
6 or 7) . Even one success allows the character to
observe the item, though more successes bring greater
detail and clarity .
This power costs 9 experience points to learn .
IRON FAÇADE
(FORTITUDE *, OBFUSCATE
Battles are often won not by the strength or
weaponry of the combatants, but in the psychology of
war. The appearance of invulnerability is often sufficient
to unsettle or even rout a superior foe . With this
power, the Kindred creates just such an appearance,
seeming to shrug off heavy or even near-crippling
blows like so much water . This power is most commonly
found among archons, but its use among templars
is not unknown.
Time since death
Less than 24 hours
One day to one week
Less than one month
Less than `i x m m t h
Less than one year
Less than ten c r,
I
Less than one century
10**
Greater than one century
NA
NAME OF The FALLEN
Difficulty if Kindred
1
Difficulty if kine
10
* Discerning the origin of a corpse-portion this old requires three successes .
** Discerning the origin of a corpse-portion this old requires five successes .
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
140
System : The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge
(difficulty 6) . If successful, the character
appears to be unwounded and functioning at full
capacity regardless of how badly injured he actually
is . This power does not actually heal wounds or
reduce dice-pool penalties ; it simply appears to do
so, making it impossible for the enemy to judge the
character's true state . The power lasts for a scene,
or until the character reaches the Incapacitated
health level . A vampire with Auspex can see
through this power if her Auspex exceeds the
character's Obfuscate .
This power costs 10 experience points to learn .
NAME OF The FALLEN
(AUSPEX 0 0 0 , THAUMATURGY
Name of the Fallen could likely be made to function
with Necromancy in place of Thaumaturgy at the
Storyteller's discretion . Because few archons or templars
have access to this Discipline, however, this is not a
standard technique .
System: The player must spend a blood point
and roll Perception + Empathy ; the difficulty depends
on whether the subject was mortal or vampire,
as well as on the length of time since he died . The
character must have in her possession at least a
small piece of the corpse, though something as tiny
as a finger bone or even the ashes of a Kindred who
has suffered Final Death will suffice . If the roll fails,
that character may not try to identify that particular
subject again unless she can find a new sample of the
body. If the roll indicates a botch, the character
receives false information . The knowledge granted
by this power appears instantly ; the character falls
into no "trance" such as that experienced when
using Spirit's Touch .
This power costs 10 experience points to learn .
The Kindred with this power may identify a deceased
person, Kindred or kine, simply by handling a
piece of the corpse .
RANDOM PATTERNS
AUSpEX * DEMENTATION )
Developed by Malkavian templars but slowly increasing
in usage among archons as well, Random
Patterns allows the character to anticipate an
opponent's next move in time to counter it . Blows can
be blocked or avoided before they're even thrown,
pursuit can be cut off and bluffs can be called . The
power doesn't allow the character to see into the future
per se, so much as it reads the patterns in the chaos and
random chance that surround the target and allows the
Kindred to determine his next move based on previous
actions and lines of probability .
System: The player spends a blood point and
rolls Perception + Empathy (or Awareness, if you're
using that optional Talent), against a difficulty of 5 to
7, determined by the Storyteller's assessment of how
predictable the opponent is based on his nature . For
instance, a character with a Nature of Curmudgeon
or Perfectionist is probably fairly predictable and thus
difficulty 5, while a Nature of Deviant or Monster is
probably less predictable and thus difficulty 7 . The
difficulty can be further modified by derangements . If
the roll succeeds, the character adds a number of
automatic successes to his next action equal to the
number of successes on the Random Patterns roll .
This action must be a contested or combat-related
APPENDIX : TOOLS OF THE TRADE
1 4 1
roll against the target . For example, the bonus could
be applied to pursuit, melee or dodge, but not to the
activation of a Discipline .
This power costs 14 experience points to learn .
FLESH OF WIND AND WATER
(CELERITY * • , VICISSITUDE • . 0 )
Under normal conditions, a Tzimisce (or other
user of Vicissitude) who seeks to reshape his own form
must take the time to mold his features and limbs into
the desired shape . This makes it difficult to adapt to
changing situations, such as the chaos of combat or the
need for sudden disguise . Flesh of Wind and Water (so
named because of the rippling effect seen in the flesh
as it operates) allows the Tzimisce to make those
alterations allowed by the first three levels of Vicissitude
almost instantly (each use of the power takes but
a single turn), without the need to physically sculpt the
alterations. This power can be used on the Cainite
wielding the power only ; if he wishes to alter someone
else, he must do so at the normal rate and with the
normal methods. This power is unknown outside of
the Sabbat .
System: The player spends two blood points each
time this power is invoked, and must make all standard
rolls required for the use of Vicissitude . He may use
only a single Vicissitude power per use of Flesh of Wind
t
and Water. Thus, if he wanted to use both Fleshcraft
and Bonecraft on himself, he would have to use Flesh
of Wind and Water twice, requiring a total of four
blood points, two rolls and two turns .
This power costs 16 experience points to learn .
MORTAL TERROR
(ANIMALISM * * *, PRESENCE • • ) While the power of Quell the Beast is certainly
useful if you're trying to soothe or quiet someone,
sometimes you need something a bit more dramatic .
Mortal Terror focuses the power of Dread Gaze directly
on another Kindred's Beast, bypassing the conscious
mind entirely. This can potentially drive a vampire
into immediate Rotschreck . This power is available to
both archons and templars .
System: The character must either touch her
target or make eye contact, and the player must succeed
in a contested roll (Charisma + Intimidation vs .
the target's Willpower, both difficulty 7) . If the character
accumulates more successes than the victim has
dots of Courage, the power takes effect and Rotschreck
overwhelms the victim . The victim may begin making
Courage rolls in an attempt to fight off Rotschreck
starting the next turn . Until he accumulates five
successes, he will continue to flee from the character
by the fastest and most direct route .
Invoking this power spuriously is dangerous . Should
the character botch the roll to invoke the power, the
victim must immediately roll Self-Control to resist
frenzy, rather than Rotschreck .
This power costs 18 experience points to learn .
5ANGUINARY EXPULSION
(FORTITUDE * . , PROTEAN
OR DTHAUMATURGY S )~ eveloped by elder archons as a counter against
the terrors (true and imagined) of the Vaulderie, this
power allows a vampire to ingest small amounts of
blood without absorbing them into her system . This
not only prevents the formation of blood bonds and
Vinculum, but also protects against blood-borne pois
.no s,T hde rugnps laeands adnit saeafstersefects of
this power make most archons reluctant to utilize it,
but it beats letting the Sabbat or some arrogant elder
compromise your loyalties .
System: The player rolls Stamina + Fortitude,
(difficulty 5 + the number of blood points consumed,
maximum 9) . If she fails, the blood is
consumed normally and all effects occur as normal .
If the roll succeeds, the character is able to hold the
blood internally without absorbing it, and may vomit
it back up later. This prevents any blood bonds,
Vinculi, poisons or other abnormal properties of the
blood from affecting the character . On the other
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
142
hand, the character may not spend even a single
blood point until the tainted blood is regurgitated ;
if she does so for any reason (including waking up in
the evening), the power ends instantly and the
blood is absorbed as normal . Although it doesn't
cost a blood point to activate the power, an additional
blood point (above and beyond the number
consumed) is vomited back up and lost when the
tainted blood is purged .
This power costs 15 experience points to learn .
ANTICIPATORY VISAGE
AUSpEX * * * *, OBFUSCATES S) This power was first developed by an investigative
archon who was frustrated by his inability to sneak into
the gathering of a Gehenna cult because he didn't
know as whom to disguise himself. Anticipatory Visage
allows the Kindred to appear as whomever the
target most expects to see in a given circumstance . The
character herself has no control over who she appears
to be, and may not even be immediately aware of what
form she's taken . This power has, to date, been used by
archons alone .
System: The player spends a blood point and
makes a Manipulation + Performance roll (difficulty
6) . If successful, the character immediately takes the
form (per Mask of a Thousand Faces) of the individual
the target most expected . If faced with more
than one person, the character must select one individual
as the target and hope that the others expect
to see the same person . The character is not immediately
aware of the form she has taken, and may have
difficulty carrying the ruse further than the initial
contact . While this power provides the form of the
expected individual, it does not provide any knowledge
of her personality or memories ; the character
must be exceedingly careful not to give herself away
through suspicious behavior . A vampire with Auspex
can see through this power if her Auspex exceeds the
character's Obfuscate .
This power costs 24 experience points to learn .
ANTICIPATORY LOCUTION
AUSPEX 00 0 0,OBFUSCATE • 0 0, ANTICIPATORY VISAGE
A refinement to Anticipatory Visage, this
power was created in an attempt to mitigate the
difficulties involved in passing yourself off as someone
when you don't know who you're supposed to
be . When Anticipatory Locution is active, the
target not only sees whom he expects to see but also
hears what he expects them to say . This works for
short phrases only, not entire conversations, so an
archon can still trip himself up quite easily if he's
not careful . Still, Anticipatory Locution is good
for covering small gaffes or for getting around code
words and passwords .
System: This power does not require the expenditure
of blood, as it is considered active when the
user has succeeded in invoking Anticipatory Visage .
Any time the character utters a short answer to a
question (no more than a single moderate sentence or
so), the player may make a roll of Manipulation +
Subterfuge (difficulty 7) . If successful, the target
hears the answer he would have expected from whoever
he believes the character to be . This power
breaks down in long conversation or under in-depth
questioning, and it can be seen (heard) through with
Auspex if the Kindred's Auspex is greater than the
character's Obfuscate .
This power costs 20 experience points to learn.
INSTANTANEOUS TRANSFORMATION
(CELERITY *, PROTEAN 0
OR OBTENEBRATION )
Almost exclusive to the templars (a handful
archons have learned this power, but they are exceptionally
rare), Instantaneous Transformation allows
the character to undergo a shifting of shape (either
Tenebrous Form, Shape of the Beast or Mist Form) in
a single turn for the normal expenditure of blood .
System: The character must roll Stamina + Survival
(difficulty 7) and spend the normal cost associated
with the shift (one blood point for Shape of the Beast
or Mist Form, three for Tenebrous Form) . If the roll is
successful, the change takes only a single turn, rather
than the three normally demanded . Failure indicates
that the shift takes the standard three turns, and a
botch means that the blood was spent but the power
does not take effect .
If the character wishes to use this power for both
Obtenebration and Protean, she must buy it twice,
once for each Discipline . This power could conceivably
be purchased with other shapeshifting Disciplines
(such as Serpentis) at the Storyteller's prerogative .
This power costs 24 experience points to learn .
MIND'S EYE
AuspEX 0 0 • 0 , DOMINATE s ~ )
With this power, an archon or templar can
actually experience a memory belonging to someone
else . Sight, sound, scent and other details - all
are potentially just as intense as they were for the
subject when they first occurred . While Mind's Eye
can be used on a cooperative subject who simply
wishes to provide the most accurate report possible,
it is often used as a form of interrogation and intelligence
gathering .
System: The character must make eye contact
with the subject (unless she possesses a power that
APPENDIX : TOOLS OF THE TRADE
143
allows her to use Dominate with touch or at a
distance, in which case she may use these other
techniques instead), and the player must spend a
blood point . If the subject is cooperating, or is an
unwilling mortal or Kindred of higher generation
than the character, the character need merely make
a Perception + Subterfuge roll, difficulty 6. If the
subject is both unwilling and a Kindred of equal or
lower generation, she may resist with an opposed
Willpower roll, difficulty 6 ; successes on this roll
subtract from the character's own. The character
may attempt to locate a specific memory in one of
two ways. She may either search by time ("Let me
see what was happening to you yesterday at midnight")
or by event ("I'm going to find out what you
said to him at your last meeting!") A botch instead
allows the subject to see one of the character's
memories (chosen randomly by the Storyteller) and
renders that subject immune to any further uses of
Mind's Eye by that specific character for the remainder
of the scene.
The clarity of the memories experienced depends
on the successes rolled and the time elapsed since the
events actually occurred. The elapsed time indicated
on the table below is for clear, accurate memories only;
the character can actually experience memories ofone
category older, but with a substantial loss of detail and
accuracy (Storyteller's call as to what is correct and
what is not) .
Successes
Age of memories available
1
Within the last hour
2
Within the last day
3
Within the last week
4
Within the last month
5
Within the last year
This power costs 25 experience points to learn .
HIGH-LEVEL
DISCIPLINES
CIPHER
(Auspux ***** •)
The character can understand any written material,
even in a language with which she is unfamiliar or
scribed in code . Only words with some supernatural
nature - such as a Malkavian's Scrawl (see Clanbook :
Malkavian) or Thaumaturgical runes - are not always
subject to this effect .
System: Cipher requires the expenditure of a
blood point and a roll of Intelligence + Linguistics
(difficulty 6) . Each success allows the character to
read a specific language or decipher a specific code
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
144
for an entire scene. Thus, a character who speaks
neither French nor Russian could, if he rolled two
successes, read both French and Russian for one
scene ; alternatively, he could read one work written
in French and encoded (one success for the language,
one for the code) . Multiple attempts may be
made on a single written work, but each new attempt
requires a blood point . A botch results in a
false translation .
If the character is attempting to read supernatural
writing, compare his total level of Auspex to the level
of the writer's relevant Discipline at the time the words
were written . If, for instance, the character is trying to
read a Malkavian's Scrawl, compare his Auspex to the
Malkavian's Obfuscate . If the Auspex is higher, the
words can be read ; if the Obfuscate is equal or greater,
they cannot .
DISCERN The A LIRA
(AuSpEx • • • • • •)
A more wide-reaching if less precise enhancement
of Aura Sight, Discern the Aura allows the Kindred to
glance over a group of individuals and pick out all
those who show a specific color, emotion or state of
being in their auras . The character could, for instance,
glance around a room, an auditorium or even at passersby
on the street and pick out everyone who is angry, or
frightened or even Kindred .
System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy
(difficulty 8) and may choose to spend a blood point
or not, as she prefers . The character can then identify
a number of people with the specific color in
their aura up to her number of successes (or up to ten
times her number of successes, if she chose to spend
a blood point) . The power lasts until the number is
reached, or until the end of the scene, whichever
occurs first .
Each use of the power can locate only one hue .
If the character wishes to find all Kindred (every
pale aura) in the crowd, and then wishes to find
everyone in the crowd who is currently frightened,
that would require two uses of the power . This
power can sometimes penetrate Obfuscate, per the
standard rules .
CHAIN OF COMMAND
(DOMINATE • )
Sometimes a single thrall isn't sufficient to accomplish
a given task . Chain of Command allows the
character to implant a suggestion (much like those
allowed by Mesmerize, except even more complex) .
For instance, the subject could be commanded to
follow an individual and report who she speaks to, or
to travel from Mexico City to Houston and deliver
intelligence from an undercover archon to the prince
there. Chain of Command does more than this,
however. Should the thrall prove unable to complete
his assigned task, Chain of Command grants him the
power to pass the compulsion along to someone else .
This person could, in turn, pass the compulsion along
to a third agent, and even a fourth, until the objective
is completed.
System: The player spends one blood point,
one Willpower point and rolls Manipulation +
Leadership (difficulty equal to the target's permanent
Willpower) when implanting the suggestion
in the first thrall . Keep track of the character's
total successes . Should the thrall encounter an
impediment or circumstance that she honestly
believes will prevent her from fulfilling the objective
perhaps she is injured and unable to leave
the hospital, is recognized by the individual she's
tailing, cannot afford travel to her destination, or
the like - she will attempt to pass the compulsion
on to another individual whom she judges capable
of continuing the assignment . Should the thrall
believe herself to be dying, she will choose whoever
is most convenient . If the character who
implanted the original suggestion possesses the
power of Obedience, the compulsion can be passed
by touch; otherwise it requires eye contact. The
compulsion can be passed only to an individual
with a Willpower equal to or less than that of the
current thrall (and only to Kindred of higher generation
than the character) . The thrall does not
make a roll to determine success ; rather, take the
original character's successes and subtract one .
Subtract two if the second thrall passes along the
compulsion, three if the third thrall passes it along,
and so forth . Chain of Command lasts either until
the task is complete, a thrall is killed without the
chance to pass the compulsion on, the character
chooses to end it or the number of successes drops
to zero .
STRINGS OF THE MARIONETTE
DOMINATE•••*• • • )
With this power, the Kindred's ability to command
the minds of others is so great that she may
even overcome the paralysis imposed by staking, or
the languor of torpor . The subject cannot move as
swiftly as normal, has reduced mental capacity, and
cannot access any Disciplines that require conscious
effort to activate . Within these parameters, however,
the subject can be forced to take any actions the
character desires .
System: The character must first physically
touch the subject ; the player then rolls Manipulation
+ Leadership, with a difficulty equal to the
APPENDIX: TOOLS OF THE TRADE
145
target's Willpower + I (the added difficulty is to
overcome the paralysis or torpor) . The character
maintains control for a number of scenes equal to
the successes rolled .
The subject of this power is limited in the
actions he can perform while staked or torpid . In
addition to the restriction on Disciplines, the subject
loses one from all dice pools involving physical
actions ; all other dice pools are reduced by half
(round down) .
GEMINI'S MIRROR
(OBFUSCATE • S 0 . . . )
Legend speaks of strange Disciplines, mastered
only by the most annuated Kindred, that allow the
undead to split themselves in two . Gemini's Mirror
doesn't have that level of power, but it does allow the
character to appear to be in two places at once - or
to move away invisibly while leaving an illusory
double behind .
System: The character spends two blood points
and rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge, difficulty 7 . A
mirror image of the character appears several feet from
the character . The character may then move away,
invoke other Disciplines or take any other action . The
image can take any actions the character desires,
though controlling both the image and himself in the
same turn requires him to split his dice pools . The
image remains visible even if the character hides his
true self with Obfuscate or other Disciplines . It lasts for
the scene, or until the character moves more than 100
feet away from it .
MASK OF JANUS (OBFUSCATE • )
Mask of Janus allows the character to assume
the physical appearance of another individual, in
much the same manner as Mask of a Thousand
Faces . When a character assumes someone's form
using Mask of Janus, however, the target's appearance
also changes - to match that of the character
invoking the power. Unlike Mask of a Thousand
Faces, Mask of Janus can be used only to duplicate
someone exactly . It cannot be used to create a new
or unique image .
System: The player spends a blood point and rolls
Manipulation + Performance (difficulty 7) . The target
must be visible to the character, though the reverse
need not be true. This power works even over live or
closed-circuit television . The victim can resist with a
Willpower roll if she is of equal or lower generation
than the character . Compare the character's net successes
to the chart for Mask of a Thousand Faces to
determine her degree of success . This power lasts until
the next sunrise .
f
v
l;
THAUMATURGY
RITUALS
THE VERDANT BLADE
(LEVEL FIVE RITUAL
Archons sometimes have to take Kindred either
for judgment or (more likely) for questioning . Carrying
a heavy wooden stake is fairly conspicuous, though,
and it lets your target know that you don't want him
dead. Several Quaesitors developed the Verdant Blade
in the 1800s . Its use is limited largely to that group,
though a few other archons have learned it . The ritual
temporarily enchants any sharp object - a sword or
large knife, a bone, a piton or tent spike - to paralyze
Kindred staked with it as though it were wooden . The
weapon or item must be placed in a vat or tub along
with a freshly cut tree branch, several ounces of sap and
a gallon of water . When the ritual is complete, the
weapon will paralyze a vampire when driven into its
heart . This effect works only once ; once the weapon is
removed, it must be enchanted again if the caster
wishes to use it to stake another Kindred .
System: The caster must expend a blood point
when making his Intelligence + Occult roll, and must
spill a second blood point into the vat with the items
ARCHONS AND TEMPLARS
146
described above . The chanting that follows takes 25
minutes. If the roll is botched, the weapon is not
enchanted and will shatter on impact. The item or
weapon must still be large enough to use as a stake (a
large knife or a sword will work, but a pen will not) .
The ritual does not make the actual staking process any
easier, and the weapon is not considered enchanted in
any other respect .
IMPEDE THE GIFTS OF CAINE
(LEVEL SEVEN RITUAL
Developed for use by Quaesitors facing superior
numbers of Kindred, Impede the Gifts of Caine allows
the thaumaturge to temporarily dampen the use of
Disciplines in her immediate area . The focus of the
ritual can be any item between the size of a baseball and
that of a small suitcase, though it must be of relatively
sturdy construction . The item must be bathed in six
points worth of vitae that must come from at least two
different thaumaturges (though only one need know
the ritual) . Discipline use in this area is substantially
more difficult . The effect lasts for as long as the device
is active .
System: Casting the ritual costs a blood point
in addition to those in which the focus must be
submerged, and requires a full hour of casting . The
item is set briefly aflame (if the ritual succeeds, the
damage to the item fades), and must be extinguished
by the bare hand of the thaumaturge
causing one level of aggravated damage, as well as
a Courage roll to avoid Rotschreck) . When activated,
the device creates an area of power one
hundred feet in diameter, centered on the item .
Once active, the difficulty of all rolls to invoke or
use Disciplines in the area of the device is increased
by the number of successes the caster
achieved on her casting roll . Disciplines that do
not require rolls to activate are unaffected . This
power cannot raise difficulties higher than 10 .
Kindred of a lower generation than the caster
remain unaffected, but the caster herself is affected
if she steps inside the area . The item functions
until "turned off' or until dawn . In either case,
once deactivated it becomes nonmagical and cannot
be reused .
The SEVERED HAND (LEVEL SEVEN RITUAL)
Known only to a very select few among the
Sabbat Inquisitors, the Ritual of the Severed
Hand is employed in the breaking of Vinculi .
Inquisitors use it to recover spies and agents they
have inserted into Sabbat packs suspected of
heresy . Because of the ritual's questionable origins,
it is rarely used in the modern nights, and
APPENDIX : TOOLS OF THE TRADE
1 47
some Inquisitors have even suggested destroying
all known copies of the formula, lest it fall into
the hands of the Camarilla .
System: The ritual requires the subject to stand
relatively motionless, though this can be arranged
with restraints or staking, and need not be voluntary .
The caster proceeds to anoint the subject with an
alchemical mixture that must be prepared in advance;
this must contain two points of the caster's
blood, powdered human bone, a variety of crushed
herbs, and the ashes of a vampire slain by fire or
sunlight. Symbolically, if not in actual fact, the ritual
forces the blood "contaminated" by the Vinculum
into a single one of the subject's extremities -a hand
is most common, though a foot might be selected
instead . At the completion of the ritual, this extremity
must be severed . This causes three health levels of
aggravated damage which may be healed in the standard
fashion . Once done, the subject is freed of any
and all Vinculum ties .
The ritual requires that another blood point be
spend during the casting, and it requires five full hours
to invoke ; the subject must be relatively motionless or
restrained for the entire duration . Should the casting
roll indicate a botch, the subject's Vinculi are actually
increased by 1 .

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE
WW2359
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: BRUJAH
WW2351
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: FOLLOWERS Of SET
WW2360
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK : GANGREL
WW2352
$14.95 U.S.
main books
VAMPIRE : THE MASQUERADE
WW2300
$a9 .95 U.S .
The core rulebook for the
game of modern horror. Hardcover.
GUIDE TO THE SABBAT
WW2303
$ 5.95 U.S .
The core resource on the
Camarilla's undead rivals . Hardcover.
GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA
WZ302
$5.95 U.S .
The core resource on the foremost
sect of vampires . Hardcover.
CLANBOOK: GIOVANNI
WW2363
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: LASOMBRA
WW2362
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: MALKAVIAN
WW2353
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: NOSfERATU
WW2354
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: RAVNOS
WW2364
$14.95 U.S.
clanbooks
Clanbooks contain vital character information for players and Storytellers .
CLANBOOK: TOREADOR
WW2356
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: TREMERE
WW2357
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: TZIMISCE
WW2361
$14.95 U.S.
CLANBOOK: VENTRUE
WW2358
$14 .95 U.S.
ART Of VAMPIRE :
THE MASQUERADE
WW2298 $14 .95 U .S.
The lavishly illustrated art book
that accompanied the Vampire
limited edition now available
individually.
BLOOD MAGIC:
SECRETS Of
THAUMATURGY
WW2106 $19 .95 U .S.
A long-awaited resource that
contains the most jealously
guarded powers of blood
magicians.
BOOK Of NOD
WW2251 $10 .95 U .S.
The tome of vampires' proposed
origins and history. Tradeback .
CAIRO BY NIGHT
WW2410 $15 .95 U .S.
Chicago chronicles
volume a
WW2235 $20 .00 U .S.
Combines Chicago by Night
Second Edition and Under a
Blood Red Moon
CHILDREN Of THE
NIGHT
WW2023 $14.95 U .S.
The masters of the undead in the
Final Nights.
CITIES Of DARKNESS
VOLUME 3
WW2624 $16 .00 U .S.
Combines Alien Hunger and
Dark Colony
other supplements
DIRTY SECRETS
Of THE BLACK HAND
WW2006 $18 .00 U .S.
Secret rules and powers for this
hidden sect .
ETERNAL HEARTS
WW2400 $19 .95 U .S.
A novella from Black Dog Game
Factory that examines the
vampire as a sexual metaphor.
For adults only.
GHOULS:
FATAL ADDICTION
WW2021 $15 .00 U .S.
The guide to playing vampires'
human pawns .
THE GILDED CAGE
WW2420 $15 .95 U .S.
GIOVANNI
CHRONICLES IV :
NUOVA MALATTIA
WW2097 $19 .95 U .S.
For adults only.
THE GIOVANNI SAGA I
WW2098 $17 .95 U .S.
The epic adventure of undead
betrayal and power across the
ages . Contains parts I and II of
the Giovanni Chronicles . For
adults only.
MIDNIGHT SIEGE
WW2422 $19.95 U .S.
NEW YORK BY NIGHT
WW2411 $17 .95 U .S.
for more information visit us online :
www. white-wolf. com
NIGHTS Of PROPHECY
WW2265 $19 .95 U-SSecrets
revealed and cycles
turned in the Year of Revelations .
REVELATIONS Of
THE DARK MOTHER
WW2024 $10.95 U .S.
New insight into vampire origins
and the undead curse itself, in
the Book of Nod tradition .
Tradeback .
SINS Of THE BLOOD
WW2421 $17 .95 U .S.
THE TIME
Of THIN BLOOD
WW2101 $15 .95 U .S.
Allows you to portray the hunted
childer of high-generation
vampires .
VAMPIRE
STORYTELLERS
COMPANION
WW2301 $14.95 U .S.
The essential screen and resource
book for Vampire Storytellers .
VAMPIRE
STORYTELLERS
HANDBOOK
REVISED EDITION
WW2304 $25.95 U .S.
The core reference for Vampire
Storytellers . Hardcover.
\1AMPI TH€ MASQU€RAD€
It is the ear of our ,Cord 1230.
This neap age is a time o f war.
A time to take up arms in the darkness
against those who would rob you
of your dark birthright .
la. mdraw dour sword,
hone your wits
and shore up dour faith .
The time has come to loin the mar of ¶Princes.
MaA 2002
u , I!' II) - II' liii
It' O1/
0 Itt
tlarka, c<
Archons & Tem lors white wolf WW2425
WV
-P
I
vor)4~jucords of
Titles among the Damned aren't always primogen and prisci . Somebody has
to do the dirty work . From fighting Lupines to hunting rogue Cainites, from
enforcing the Traditions to leading a crusade, a few bold vampires step to the
head of the charge . Those vampires are the unsung champions of the night .
A[ c'f)oi)S &
A
of"l)p cti IS
MO (A Pc,-
A chance to play high-status characters from both of the prominent sects
New powers and tactics used by the elite guardians of the Kindred
Advice on creating a chronicle exclusively about one sect's champions
k
ORB of
AM PIR
THE MASQUERADE
111,1`itc •A sI(,cir
9
ISBN 1-58846-224-2
WW2425 $19.95 U .S .
462244
51995
y