A- SOURCEBOOK FOR VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADESS 


Sie te, 
‘| and addi Oral fH 


’ charag 


MWe 
| il | 


Roses WATERED WITH BLOOD 


By RICHARD E. DANSKY, WITH GEOFFREY C. GRABOWSKI, 
KenneTtH Hite, CLAYTON OLIVER AND CYNTHIA SUMMERS 


CREDITS 

Written by: Richard E. Dansky, Geoffrey C. Grabowski, 
Kenneth Hite, Clayton Oliver and Cynthia Summers 
Additional Writing by: James Kiley 

Additional Assistance: Justin Achilli, Robert Barrett, Bruce 
Baugh (statistics), David Bolack, Bryant Durrell, Greg Foun- 
tain, Jess Heining, Chris Nasipak, and Alexander Williams 


Development by: Richard E. Dansky 

Editing by: Cynthia Summers 

Art Direction by: Larry Snelly and Richard Thomas 

Art by: Gary Amaro, Andy Bennett, Matt Clark, Richard 
Clark,Guy Davis, Jason Felix, Daren Frydendall, Mike! 
Pia Guerra, Mark Jackson, Vince Locke, Greg Loudon, 
WilliamO’Connor, Adam Rex, Andrew Ritchie, Steve 
Sadowski, Alex Shiekman, and Christopher Shy 

Cover Art: Bill Sienkiewicz 

Front and Back Co 
Endpapers: Phill Hale 


aydos, 


r Design: Pauline Benney 


Layout and typesetting by: Pauline Benney 


© 1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Reproduction without the written permission of the pub- 
lisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of 
reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be 
reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire 
the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, M: the 
Ascension and World of Darkness are registered trade- 
marks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Change 
ling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Trinity, 
The Guide to the Camarilla, Ghouls Fatal Addiction, 
Vampire Storytellers Guide and Blood Magic are trade- 
marks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserv 
All characters, names, places and text herein are copy- 
righted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc 

The mention of or reference to any company or product 
in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or 
copyright concerned. 


Speciat THANKS To: 

Varney the Vampire, Dracula, “The Transfer,” The Case of 
Charles Dexter Ward, Vampire Junction, Carrion Comfort, Lost 
Souls, Fevre Dream, Those Who Hunt the Night and all of the 
other wonderful stories that have continually re-invented 
the vampire for us. 


735 PARK NORTH BLVD. 
E SUITE 128 

CLARKSTON, GA 30021 

USA 


CAME STUDIO 


This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters 
and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are 
fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. 
Reader discretion is advised. 

Check out White Wolf online at 
hetp://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and 
rec.games.frp.storyteller 


PRINTED IN CANADA 


The Gue T0 THe Camara 


2 


CONTENTS 


Routette: A CAUTIONARY TALE 


INTRODUCTION 

THe BASICSIN BLOOD: THE Sect DEFINED 

THIN TRACERIES OF BLOOD: THE CLANS 

FROM THE BEGINNING: CHARACTER CREATION 

Powers BEYOND UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DISCIPLINES 
THe RHYTHM OF IMMORTALITY: TACTICS AND SYSTEMS 

THe City By NIGHT: BUILDING YOUR SETTING 

TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MYSTERY: STORYTELLING 


ALLIES, ENEMIES AND OTHERS 


ED) 


OULETTE: 


JAN W AUNONARY TALE 


bbatscouting 
Every 


Ithad beenabout two monthssince the last 
excursion, which meant that we were due for another ont 
sooften, one of the bishops hiding in the SoCal sandbox decides 


the time is right tosend another couple of shovelheads into town 
on some sort of bad Hunter S. Thompson-style info-gathering 
jaunt, and it’s my job to watch out for that sort of thing. Truth 


be told, it's not so hard to watch out for. This town is neck-deep 
in anarchs who think they're hardcases but aren't; a real Sabbat 
badass sticks out like a sore thumb. 

So that’s my job. His Majesty (Prince Benedic, not that low- 
rent Giovanni Rothstein who claims to run the town out of 
Bally's) tellsme towatch for Sabbat infiltrators, which Ido. When 


one (or two, or three — they like to travel in groups, I’ve found) 


members of the othersideshow up, I make my reportto the prince, 
andwebangheadsand decide whattodo. The decision varies from 
case tocase, but usually we have tobe delicate aboutsquashingthe 
ba 
aren't necessarily stupid; they go to ground with the best of them. 
That m 
going to do it with a safety pin fleshcrafted through his nose so he 
can claim to bean anarch, not Sabbat. So if go out there with my 
squad and take down the impostor, wel, let's just say that any real 
anarchs he'd managed to fool would be up in arms about “being 

art 


tards as soon as they show their faces. I mean, Sabbat spies 


sans that if Tzammy Tzimisce tzchows, err, shows up he's 


oppressed by the man.” At that point the neonates would s 
throwing things and blowing the Masquerade to hell sideways, 
and that would mean more work for me and mine. 

His Majesty, in case you were wondering, does not like 
to pay overtime. 

No, it makes a lot more sense to play along, and then 
eitherstake the spy en route to his “private audience” with the 
prince, or feed the mark false information about our defenses, 
numbers, disposition and so on. Send back three different 


scouting parties with three different reports, and you can 
almost hear them tearing into each another from here once 
someone takes the time to compare notes. It’sa joy to ponder 


Vegas is a very volatile town, you see. This burg survives 


on tourism, which means that if tourists start going missing, 
the visitir 


raffic goes down and the place goes to hell. But if 
we control the take, make sure that it’s just the lonely and 
unloved who get taken, well, then, this place is a paradise for 
our kind. You think the casinos have all-night buffets, you 
should see what the streets look like. That's why people like me 
— and I use the term “people” loosely — have to make sure 
thatall ofthe rulesand regulations get followed. Ifanyone gets 
greedy, or takes too much, or does anythin 


stupid in public, 
the entire game could go in the crapper. | like this place, and 
sodoes His Majesty, entirely toomuch toallow that to happen. 

The red phone rings. It only rings when there's something 
about to go down. I sigh as the damn thing keeps jangling, then 
walk across the room to pick itup. The prince givesmeanice suite 
in the Mirage as part of my compensation package (it’s a running 
joke thatone of these years we're all going to get dental), and [ike 
that just fine. | never could have afforded a place like this when 
Iwasalive, andit’snice that Benedicappreciates what doenough 
to give me this as a token of his esteem. 

I place the phone to my ear and made a noncommittal 
noise. Duke, the ghoul who works hotel security, answers, 
“Mr. Montrose?” As if it would be anyone else on my direct 
connect phone. Good help has never been easy to find. 

“Yes? I take it we've got visitors?” 

“Oh, we've got a live one indeed, sir.” A live one. That 
was Duke's idea of a joke. He'd been using it every time he 
spotted a Kindred for the past 15 years, and he hadn't quite 
warmed to the notion that none of the rest of Prince 


Rouuerte:A Caunonary Tate 


Benedic’s employees found the gag particularly amusing. 
Still, he’s a good man in a fight, and loyal. Plus, he has a good 
nose for sniffing out infiltrators. Useful talent, that 

“Just one?” 

“Two, actually. A man and a woman. He’s currently giving 
the desk help something of a hard time, claiming his name is 
Tom Cruise. He’s too tall by half for the impersonation to take, 
but it’s one of the more clever attempts I've seen in a while.” 

“Get his room assignmentand make sure noone goes in or out 
once he and his friend settle in. Have one of the specials handle the 
valet parking on their car, and check the trunk for ordnance. Also 
run the floorboards to see if they're trying to smuggle anything in, 
and have your friend at LVPD run the plates to see if the car is hot.” 

Duke's annoyance is palpable as he responds, “They self- 
parked, Mr. Montrose. It was part of what tipped me off to 
their presence. Otherwise, I'll perform the usual functions, as 
per our SOP. Do you have any other instructions?” 

I find myself frowning. Something about this caper feels 
wrong. “Nothing else. Just be extra careful on this one, OK? 
I've got a feeling.” 

‘You always have a feeling, Mr. Montrose,” Duke saysas he 
hangs up. He's right, though. I always have the same bad feeling 
in what used to be my gut, and I always give him the same orders 
onceasuspicious character checks in orotherwiseappearson the 
scene. That’s one of the strengths of the team, though: routine. 
Tradition. The knowledge that we're going to do it right this 
time, because we've done it right a hundred times before 

An hour later, Duke is sitting in the almost-but-not- 
quite overstuffed beige chair in the corner of my suite, nursing 
ahideous concoction he calls Rusty Nail. He claims that the 
taste of one of those monsters allows him to look forward to 
the tang of the vitae he receives every month from Prince 
Benedic, but I think he just has lousy taste. 

“Where shall I begin, Mr. Montrose?” he says, as I plant 
myself in the chair opposite his. 

‘Start with the basics. As always.” 

Good old long-suffering Duke. Completely predictable. 
“The car was our first area of inquiry. It is, much to my surprise, 
completely legitimate. There’snot much else spectacular about 
it, save that it can probably get up near 200 mph in a pinch, 
guzzles gas dreadfully and has the sort of solid steel chassis that 
can serve to knock down telephone poles.” 

Het outa low whistle. “Impressive. I take it the trunk had 
equipment for dayproofing?” 

Duke coughed embarassedly. “Delgado didn’t get a good 
enough look to see, Mr. Montrose.” 

“He didn’t? Well, why the hell not?” I fling a coaster — 
why the hell does housekeeping insist on putting coasters in 
my room? — in disgust 

“Because of the Kindred in the way, Mr. Montrose.” 

“The what?” 


“Apparently there was a recently Embraced Cainite 
African 


n 
merican youth in his early teens, locked in there 


Delgado opened the trunk, and the unregistered passenger 
startedthrashingabout. He shut the trunk and reported tome.” 

“Where is he now?” 

“He'sathome. | rotated him off shift, so our visitors don’t 
see his face, match it with any description the childe in the 
trunk might give, and put two and two together.” 

Ah. Pll want to talk to him. Have him give me a call 
here. How about our happy couple?” 

Duke shuffled his papers and flipped to another page in his 
notes. “They're in Room 1413, and we're reasonably certain 
they've done some crude lightproofing. By the sounds at the 
door, they're sleeping in the bathroom, most likely in the tub. 
The arrangement is nothing we haven't seen before, should we 
wish to extract our visitors quietly. They haven't even made 
contact with any local Kindred, so it’s notas ifthey'd be missed.” 

“Hmm. Letme think. Do we have descriptions on them?” 

Without a word, Duke hands me an envelope containing 
enhanced images of the pair from the lobby's security cameras. 
ips, while the third isa wide-angle pan. “Allright, 
attractive, and that cowboy hat looks like 
it’s welded on. She probably dug herself out of the ground with 


Twoareclose- 
Isee the woman's quite: 


it. The otherone—I don’tsee anything interesting here. What's 
the deal with the third picture? I can barely see their faces!” 

“If you please, Mr. Montrose.” Duke takes the picture in 
question back, grinning that smug little grin that means he 
thinks he’s about to show me up. “If you will observe, this 
picture was taken from camera four, which takes a long sweep 
of the lobby and silhouettes those who are checking in 

against the mirrors on those columns.” 

“Exactly, Mr. Montrose.” Duke is nodding, and he still 
has that smirk on his face. “I believe I suggested we install 
camera four for precisely that purpose, so that we might see if 
any of our guests might be- 

“Lasombra. They actually sent in a Lasombra this 
Beautiful.” 


Duke loses the smirk and looks slightly alarmed as I 


time 


chortle. “Mr. Montrose, shouldn’t we inform Prince Benedic? 
If there’s a Lasombra in the city—” 

Icut him offagain. It’s getting to be a habit. “I will inform 
the prince in due time. In the meanwhile, I think we're going 
to run a disinformation job on this guy. | want you to get me, 
let’s see, how about Cantor, and get the team in place, and 
meet me back here in an hour.” I’m up out of the chair now, 
pacing excitedly. This could be a good break. Duke is rising 
as well, heading for the door as he mumbles some impeccably 
polite and semantically empty parting 

Once Duke is gone, I head for the other phone, the one that 
speed-dials Benedic’s private line. We know better than to tal 
conversations onto cell phones — one particularly sensitive 
conversation got picked up by a kid who had stumbled across 
Benedic’s frequency with some sort of pirating device, and I had to 
arrange a very tricky accident on short notice to hide the evidence. 
These nights, it’s all as close to solid state as we can make it. 


Toe Gune T0 THe CAMARLLA 


6 


ee 


That doesn’t mean that I don’t eavesdrop on other 
Kindred’s cell phones. I’m just not dumb enough to use the 
things myself 

Benedic’s phone rings precisely thrice before the prince 
picks up. “Yes?” His greetings always sound tentative, like 
he's afraid the receiver's going to bite his ear. Then again, 
considering how old Benedic is, I'm not surprised he still has 
vague suspicions about technology. 

“Your Majesty? It’s Montrose. We have two infiltratorsat the 
Mirage, with a third party hidden in the trunk of their car. One of 
‘our two guests isa Lasombra, while his friend is anyone's guess. I'd 
say Toreador antitribu by her looks, but it’s only a gut feeling.” 

“Interesting,” Benedic rumbles, and falls silent for a long 
moment. “What are your plans?” 

Iaunch into my spiel. This plan might take some selling, 


Well, the fact 


is it’s going to cost Benedic a valuable asset 
that one member of the team’s a Keeper changes things. If he 


disappears, it sets whoever's holding his leash on alert. I'd 


rather put on a good show for him and send him back with a 
head full of misinformation than eliminate him. However, 
this deal’s going to require a lot of selling for him to believe 
it. We had better be prepared to go all the way on this one, or 
he’s going to think that something's up.” 

Benedic flips through something on the other end of the 
line, moves some papers and produces some other noises that I 
can’t even begin to identify. “I’m interested in hearing what sort 
of lies you want to pass off to our visitor, and what you mean by 
‘all the way.’ You worry me when you say such things, Montrose. 
Iam usually the one who foots the bill for your excesses.” 

“You say that every time, but have I failed you yet?” It’s 


an old, old argument. Benedic loves the idea that I keep his 
city safe, but wishes I could do it for a bit less. When the job’s 
this important, though, I prefer not to skimp on the details. 

I can hear the prince chuckling on the other end. “Not yet, 
ind I'm hoping youdon’tstartnow. What will thisone cost me?” 


[take an unnecessary, but soothing deep breath. “How 


do you feel about Duke 


An hour later, I'm in the sub-basement of the Mirage, 


the hole where they keep the janitorial supplies, the cleaning 
chemicals and the bodies. Standing with me is a low-level 
Ventrue flunky by the name of Alexander Cantor, who's 
dressed in a suit that’s entirely inappropriate for this puddled 
mess. He keeps on stepping back and forth, in hopes of 
keeping the gunk off his shoes. It’s not working. 

I've gota headset on, and it’s linked to the mike that Duke 


is wearing. “I’m inside the room and ready to go, Mr. Montrose 


Wish me luck,” I hear him breathe into his wire, and then the 


rat-tat-tat of his knuckles on door. “Mr. Cruise? Mr. Cruis 
Over the wire, | can hear the distant fumbling, and a muted 
’m afraid the matter is of considerable 


voice complaining. 


urgency, Mr., err, Cruise.” More mumbling, and something 


about a girl. “No, Mr. Cruise, there’s no girl out here.” 


Rouerre:A Caunonary TALE 
7 


Duke is playing his part just right. The tone of his voice 


indicates that he knows thi story is bullshit and that he 


doesn’t care if his target knows that he does. Then there’s the 


sound of the door cracking open, and the curtain comes upon 
Duke’s final performance 


have rules in this town, Mr. Cruise— I 

pardon?” There's more indecipherable attitude that comes over 
the line, and Cantor does this odd little contortion to getas close 
to the mike as possible without touching me. Meanwhile, Duke 
isn’t breaking stride. “...appears that you care little for the rules 
in our town, and that your presence is not one of benefice to us.” 
Now there’s some shuffling, and what sounds like someone 
walking off."...sure you're familiar with our Traditions, and that 
you have no intention of flouting them. My employer wishes to 
speak toyou, and lam toescort you to his offices.” There’s nothing 
for a second, then a wisecrack and assent. They're coming. 

The elevator grinds to a halt at the far end of the 
storeroom. The doors squeak as Duke and Cruise, or whatever 
his name is, walk out. “Cruise” is tall and thin and 
looking, and he's flicking his eyes from side to side look 
an ambush. He doesn’t seem to be surprised, though, that his 
meeting with “authority” is happening in a crudhole sub- 
basement, down among the bottles of floor wax and crates of 
toilet cakes. I swear, that’s one of the bi 
Sabbat guys have. They think that since their big 
hang out in shitholes, ours do as well. Benedic wouldn't be 


caught down here if there were a six-pack of Caine’s blood 


sitting in the middle of the floor. Still, their delusions serve my 
purposes. A meeting that would seem like a transparent scam 
to any normal vampire makes perfect sense to a shovelhead 

Duke and the Lasombra are talking, saying lots of noth- 
ing. I’m suddenly anxious to get this over with, and so I nudge 
Cantor. He looks at me with disgust for a second because 1 
dared to touch him, then he remembers his lines. “Duke, this 
isn’t Tom Cruise,” he says, with precisely zero enthusiasm 
Next time I'll get myself a Toreador 

The ghoul and the vampire stop, right on the mark I'd 
We've already been 
our clerk spelled my 


taped for Duke on the floor. Perfect 


through this," Cruise says petulantly. “Y 


name wror He puts his hands on his hips and looks around. 
It’s showtime. 

I drop the Obfuscate, and mentally give the guy points for 
not flinching when he sees me. Even the other Nosferatu think 
I'munattractive, buthe took itin stride. Beside me, Cantor looks 
his usual impeccable self, radiating unconcern as he picks some 
imaginary lint from his Versace. Cantor may be a no-talent yutz, 
but he at least looks the part of a player. “Welcome to Vegas,” | 
say, “lam Montrose, and this is my associate, Alexander Cantor 
Perhaps you'd care to inform us as to your business here!” 

The Keeper sizes us up, decides he might be able to take 
us both. I can see it in hisaura that he’s about to do something 


stupid. “Not business. Pleasure. I'm in from California to do 


a bit of gambling.” 


VU AT 
UN \ N AN | An 


AA iA N) 


AY 


Tre GUIDE 10 THe CaMARILLA 


ee e” ee SSE 


“And the Kindred in the trunk?” I raised what was left of 
an eyebrow. His move 

“We were driving in shifts.” His tone is defensive. Beside me, 
Cantorshiftseverso slightly, and know withoutlookingthathe’s 
pumping up his blood for a fight. “He had the night before.” 

I laugh, a signal to Cantor to back down. What’s going to 
happen has to happen, and heroics will just screw things up. 
“Quite an odd set of circumstances, don’tyouthink, Adam Stiers 
from the Anarch Free State?” I emphasize each capital letter to 
make itseem like I'm proud of myself or digging up those choice 
tidbits. “Perhaps an object lesson in how Prince Benedic keeps 
the rabble in line would do you some good.” That’s Duke’s cue, 
and he slams a meaty hand down on Stiers’ shoulder. 

I grab Cantor's hand and pull him back into a shadow, 
where I can hide us again. Duke's eyes get wide as he sees us 
vanish — that wasn't part of his briefing 
nearly rips the ghoul’s arm off, then slams him against a rack 
of paper towels. Duke staggers, then starts screaming as the 
Keeper does something to the darkness in the room that 
makes shadow spill out of Duke's mouth and damn near tear 
him in half. Beside me, I can feel Cantor tensing up like he’s 
going to jump into the fight, and I have to clamp my hand on 
d. 

Duke is down now, the Keeper tearing at his wrists and 
fumbling in his pockets for the elevator key. Next to me, 


Stiers turns and 


his wrist to keep him from going off half-cock: 


Cantor is visibly shaking as he restrains himself from going 
after... what? The blood? The Lasombra? I don't want to 
know. Ther 
as the vampire heads for the ele 
grinding sound of the doors and we're alone. 


s a squelching sound — blood on boot soles — 
ator, then I hear the familiar 


Duke’s almost gone when Cantor and I get to him. He's 
lost a lot of blood. That’s actually a plus, as it will make what 
comes next easier. I kneel down next to him and lift his head 
up with my left hand. “Don’t worry, Duke. It’s going tobe OK. 


I won't let you down. Everything's going to be OK.” He looks 
at me, eyes dulled with pain, uncomprehending. I just hold 
his head up and mutter soothing nonsense as the blood runs 
out of him. Beside me, Cantor has his straight razor out and 


rolls up his cuff so he doesn’t get blood on his shirt sleeves 


when it’sfinally time to bring Duke across. Everything's going 


going to beall right for Duke. Everything's 


toplan. Everything 
going to be just fine. 


Duke is sitting in his same old chair, riffling the same old 
papers. It took hima night to get back on his feet after Cantor 
Embraced him, but considering what he'd been through, it’s 


a remarkably fast recovery. He’s looking a trifle pale, even for 

a Ventrue, but otherwise it’s the same old Duke, right down 

to the same ill-fitting blue suit. He’s discussing the fallout 

from our little misadventure. “We've discovered one body in 

the garage, and one dead cashier at the parking lot exit.” 
“Taken care of?” 


“Of course. The cashier's family received the normal 


package, plus some extra flowers. There was also one tourist ` 


Rouere:A Caumionany TALE 


~~ ie 


badly hurt when Stiers apparently clipped him witha tire iron 
from a moving car, but other than that, I was the only 
fatality.” An untouched Rusty Nail sits in front of Duke on 


the table, a symbol of the way things were. It’s important to 
him to hang onto that symbol, I think, so I made sure to pour 
it for him when he walked in. The little things count 

‘And is that it?” 

“Apart from the traffic violations, yes, Mr. Montrose 
We've painted the incident as...,” he riffles the papers again 
until he finds what he wants, “some sort of gang incident with 
riff-raff from Los Angeles. Fortunately the robbery across 
town a few months ago makes our story seem credible.” 

I nod. “Good. Did we get a read on Stiers’ lady friend?” 

“Yes. She was responsible for the corpse in the garage. 
Apparently she hassome small skill with your favorite parlor trick, 
as DiFelice sayshe sawhersimply appearnexttothe car while | was 
taking Stiers to meet you. Other than that, she did not evince any 
spectacular abilities. She did, however, seem to havea rather short 
temper, to the point of near-psychosis. The victim was a passerby 
headed for hisown car, and she simply... snapped when he walked 
by. DiFelice says it seemed that she was tired of waiting.” 

“And the kid in the trunk?” 

“I believe he is still there.” 

Iwave the detail away as unimportant. “Fine, fine, whatever. 
So Stiers and his lady friend get away, convinced that we're a 
bunch of idiots and pushovers, and that Cantor actually has some 
power in this town. I mean, ifwe were tough, wenever would have 


let him kill one of our prize ghouls, right?” Duke flinches, but it’s 
part of the hardening process. Once you're dead, you can't allow 
yourself to shudder at the fact. “In the meantime we learned the 
caliber ofscout they're sending in —and that maneuver he pulled 
with the shadows tells me that Stiers is some fairly heavy artillery 
If the other side is using guys who are that powerful for scouting 


missions, then an offensive is coming. A major one. But if we can 


keep feeding them false information about how weak weare—by, 
say, running away the second the big bad Lasombra takes a swing 
ataghoul 
too early. Before they're really ready.” 


wecan make them overconfidentand have them hit 


Duke nods, comprehending. He still doesn’t like what 
happened to him, not that I blame him one little bit, but he’s 
apragmatist. He understands the necessity. Meanwhile it’s up 
to Cantor to get him up to speed on his Disciplines before thie 
assault comes, while I have to train his replacement aril 
maybe pick a few reinforcements out of the crowd. 

Across from me, Duke flips to a clean page and starts 
sketching out plans for improving the defenses on the parking 
garage. That’s the way things should be. Loyal service andi 
Now it’s up to us to make sé 


promotion, once you earn it. 
things stay that way. Even if we can goad the Sabbat into 
striking too early, it’s still going to be a bloodbath, and I’m 
going to have to be going triple-shift to keep the Masquerade 
in one piece. There are going to be bodies and bullets, blood 
and death everywhere. It’s going to bea royal bitch to cleanup. 

Still, it beats working. 


Give way - thy God loves blood! - then look to it: -Give 


way ere he hath more! 


— Lord Byron, Cain: A Mystery 


Welcome to the end of history. 
The edge of the millennium ishere (though even among 
Vampires the question of when precisely the millennium is 


due sparks much debate), and in the face of the 21st century, 
the Camarilla is undergoingdrastic and fundamental changes. 
For five centuries, it has maintained the Masquerade, pro- 
vided for balance between the mortal and immortal worlds, 
and most ofall striven to uphold the status quo. For more than 
five centuries, it has been successful. More than that, since 
the mid-1400s, the Camarilla has been essentially synony- 
mous with vampiric society 

But now, all of that is changing. The Camarilla is beset 
by foes, within and without. The Sabbat devours the cities of 
America’s eastern coast, while Cathayans probe for weak- 
nesses in the west. In Europe, the old strug 
prominence, while everywhere the signs foretold in the Book 
of Nod are apparent to those who are looking for them. Even 
more shocking, one of the seven clans of the Camarilla has 
left the fold. In the hour of the Camarilla’s greatest need, one 
of its pillars has proven untrustworthy 


es flare into new 


It is under such dire circumstances that you are wel- 
comed to The Guide to the Camarilla, the complete 
sourcebook for all things relating to this most august gather- 
ingof vampires. Inside this book iseverything you might have 
wished to know about the Camarilla, the vampires who make 
up its ranks, the way in which the organization functions, the 


powers its members and officers possess, and perhaps even a 
few of the secrets the group's elders have been hiding. 


WHATISTHECAMARILLA? 


To understand what the Camarilla is, it is first necessary 
to understand, on a deep and abiding level, what it is not. 
Specifically, the Camarilla is most definitely not the group 
that contains the vampiric “good guys.” There is nothing 
intrinsically good, true or nice about the Camarilla or the 
vampires who comprise it. The Camarilla docs not exist to 
protect humanity from vampiric depredation; rather, its 
function is to ensure the safest and most profitable existence 
possible for its members. The care the Camarilla takes not to 
make too overt a presence is precisely the same effort the wolf 
makes to disguise his presence among the sheep. 

What the Camarilla is, then, is a sect by the vampires, 
of the vampires and for the vampires. It exists to protect its 
members from the surging seas of humanity, who by dint of 
sheer numbers could wipe most of the Kindred off the face 
of the earth. The Camarilla’s single greatest creation, the 
Masquerade, exists for precisely this purpose. A veil of 
misdirection and falsehood, the Masquerade hides the very 
fact of Kindred existence from the mortal world. What 
humanity can’t see, it can’t kill, and thus the Kindred are 
safe. The fact that the necessity of preserving the Masquer- 


INTRODUCTION 


ade cuts down somewhat on the casualties Camarilla vam- 
pires inflict on the mortal population is merely a by-product 
of the need to preserve the illusion. 

What the Camarilla is really about, though, is the status 
quo, and the preservation thereof. The elder vampires who 
dictate the Camarilla’s policy like having power. They like 
control over hundreds and thousands of younger 
Kindred. They like having wave after wave of subordinates 
there to protect them, And, most important of all, they want 
tokeep things exactly the way they like them. The Camarilla 
works, at least for the vampires who make the policy deci- 
sions, and thus they direct the sect's policies toward 
preservation rather than improvement. Could the Camarilla 
work better? Possibly, but then it wouldn’t serve the interests 
of those who control it nearly as well. 


having 


Even those vampires lower down in the power structure 
— primogen and elders, for example — have a vested 
interest in keeping things as they are. Relics of ages long 
past, these Kindred have no place in the modern world. By 
themselves, they'd soon perish. The Camarilla provides 
them with a buffer against the harsh winds of change, 
protecting them from an era that has no use for fencers or 
nobles from the court of the Sun King, but every use for 
coders and phone phreaks. By keeping the Camarilla the 
quasi-feudal organization that it is, these Kindred make a 
comfort zone for themselves. By wrapping the Camarilla up 
in Traditions and offices, they keep the sect ona level they 
can operate on. Whether this deliberate retardation of the 
sect's evolution is ultimately harmful, none can say, but 
there are any number of younger Kindred who are less than 
pleased with the current state of affairs. 

As for the youngest of these immortals, what does the 
Camarilla offer them? Ina word, security: The sectis protection 
(stifling though it may be) while the new vampire comes into 
his powers and learns the customs of his new existence. It is a 
group of allies against the mortal world and other vampires, a 
shelter: While that 
security can quickly grow oppressive, in the beginning it is 
worth a great deal to a newly Embraced Kindred, who would 
otherwise be completely and utterly alone. 


Tue BASICS 

In theory, the Camarilla is the universal organization 
of vampires (called Kindred, as a means of cushioning the 
harsh reality of vampirism) that speaks for and legislates 
for every vampire in the world. Bound by a series of 
Traditions regarding the creation, behavior and destruc- 
tion of Kindred, the Camarilla is open to any vampire, 
regardless of clan or origin. The sect also strive 
dance with one of the Traditions, to hide the existence of 
all vampiric activity from mortal eyes. This deception, 
called the Masquerade, is the defining detail of the 
Camiarilla’s existence; the creation, maintenance and 
armed struggle to uphold the Masquerade is what drives 


ainst the new and terrible perils of unlif 


in accor- 


much of the sect’s overt policy. Regardless of how powerful 
any individual vampire might be, there are still only a 
relative handful of Kindred in the world. Should humanity 
become aware of vampires’ existence, the resultant war 
could only have one possible conclusion: humanity victo- 
rious, the Kindred essentially exterminated. The sheer 
weight of numbers would be too much for even the most 
potent Kindred to withstand. Fear of the day when that 
genocidal tide rises is why the Camarilla strives as hard as 
it does to defend the Masquerade. 

In truth, the Camarilla is far from universal. Of the 13 
full-fledged clans of vampires, only six pledge their allegiance 
to the sect. One (the Gangrel) has recently abandoned the 
Camarilla, two stand in direct opposition to it as the heart of 
the Sabbat, and four stand aloof, supposedly neutral orat least 
unaligned. Even the supposedly loyal clans are imperfect in 

ty; so-called “antitribu” abandon the Camarilla’s 
clans to serve the enemy, and more Kindred proclaim them- 
selves to be anarchs, beholden to no sect or group save the 
ones they themselves create. 

So, beset by foes within and without, the Camarilla 
must be a tiny, crumbling collective, yes? Hardly. Even on 
the doorstep of the Final Nights, the Camarilla is the 


largest, strongest and most populous sect of vampires in the 


world. It still controls much of the Americas, has inroads in 
the Far East and rules almostall of Europe. While fewer than 
half the clans belong to the Camarilla, it still boasts more 
clans than any other sect. And while the ferocity of the 
sect’s foes may give them certain plusses, the Camarilla’s 
unparalleled mastery at working with and through humans 
offers it a tremendous advantage. 


In PRACTICE 


In practice, the Camarilla is a sect of cities. The faction 
as a whole is ruled by the Inner Circle, though few outside 
that body's ranks can tell you who, what or how large that 
Circle might be. The most popular rumor is that the Inner 
Circle consists of either the quasi-legendary Founders ortheir 
childer, but no one seems to know for certain. The Inner 
Circle meets once every 13 years to appoint new justicars, 
who then serve as the ruling council’s agents in the field for 
the next decade-plus. Each justicar in turn appoints and 
blood bonds archons to assist in her work, and thus the 
internal policing of the sect is assured. 

The vast majority of the Kindred, however, are not 
archons, justicars or members of the Inner Circle. They 
dwell in the cities, and are frankly more concerned with the 
nightly business of whatever metropolis they call home 
than they are with the sect’s sweeping policies. Cities under 
the Camarilla aegis are ruled by a prince, who is advised (or 
sometimes dominated) by a council of elders called the 
primogen. Beneath the prince is a whole array of appointed 
and self-appointed officers who keep order, uphold the 
Traditions, and squabble amongst themselves seeking more 


Tht GUDE TO THe CAMARILLA 


12 


power. Those Kindred who don't hold titles seek them, 
those in power seek more power, and at the top of the 
pyramid the prince seeks to maintain his authority while 
still keeping his domain strong enough to repel attacks from 
all comers. 

For the average vampire on the street, the Camarilla 
exists as a series of laws to follow, powers-that-be to avoid or 
impress and peers to maneuver against. His concerns are 
keeping his haven safe against mortal and immortal intrud- 
ers, finding a way toadvance in the city's hierarchy (orat least 
to keep himself from being ground underfoot by the machin- 
ery of rule), and keeping himself fed without drawing the ire 
of a more powerful Kindred. It’s as far from the grand and 
glorious war against the Sabbat or the high intrigue of the 
elders as one can imagine, but this, too, is an essential 
element of the Camarilla. 


Ace 

Many of the movers and shakers of the Camarilla are 
old — centuries or even millennia old. They have seen 
empires rise and fall, philosophies and utopias crumble 
and have moved, unchanged, through all the tumult. 
Theirs is the stabilizing — some would say, ossifying — 
presence that anchors the Camarilla firmly in its Tradi- 


tions and history. 

At the same time, there are more young Kindred in the 
sect than ever before. As the mortal population has exploded, 
so too has the capacity of the cities to support the Kindred. 
That means more and more young vampires, all of whom look 
at their staid, stable and terrifyingly powerful elders with a 
combination of fear and resentment. Even as age defines the 
Camarilla, it divides the sect as well. 


ImaGine THIS 

Imagine working for a normal, mortal corpora- 
tion. You're brought on fresh out of college, work 
your way up the ranks, and, as those ahead of you 
retire or seek employment elsewhere, you make 
your steady way to the top. The process is time- 
consuming, yes, but inevitable. Everyone grows old 
and dies, even CEOs. 

Now imagine that same corporation, but with 
no competitors for employees to flee to and no 
chance of the executives growing old and dying. 
There is no opening above you, and there will never 
you make it. Either you force your way 
into the power structure by any means necessary, or 
you spend eternity as entry-level. You have no 
authority, no hope of advancement and no protec- 
tion against the whims of your superiors. 


be —unle: 


That, ina nutshell, is the dilemma ofthe young 
ampire. 


Power 

Power is the currency of the Camarilla. Power over one’s 
childer, power over one’s domain and power over one’s foes 
—all these are the coin the vampires behind the Masquerade 
trade in. Alliances are formed and broken, childer and ghouls 
created and destroyed, and murders carried out in the shad- 
ows of night, all for the sake of power. In truth, what else is 
there for the sect’s vampires to acquire? Money is worthless, 
sex pointless and love easily compelled. Power, then, be- 
comes the only thing worth pursuing. 

That is not to say that the only struggles for power take 
place within the sect itself. The Camarilla wrestles with its 
foes for dominion in the wider world; individual Kindred 
Sabbat, the Lupines and other enemies on a nightly 
basis. Regardless of whether the conflict is over a prized city 
office, control of a nightclub or the rule of an entire city, the 
struggle for power is one that envelops all Camarilla Kin- 
dred, willing or no. 


face the 


INTRIGUE 

The prime benefit of the vampiric condition is immor- 
tality. The Kindred need not worry about aging, becoming 
decrepit and finally succumbing to death. They have literally 
all eternity before them. 

With that in mind, the average vampire becomes very, 
very cautious about exposing herself to risk. Consider all that 
she has to lose by placing herself in the line of fire: not years 
or decades, but centuries and millennia. As a result, no sane 
vampire wants to risk her boundless future any more often 
than is absolutely necessary 

That means that the vampires of the Camarilla don’t go 
in for gun battles, brawls in the street or sword duels atop 
abandoned factories. They're just too dangerous. As a result, 
the predatory instinct for dominance and control innate to 
all Kindred needs to be sublimated, redirected and channeled 
into less risky pursuits. 

And so the Kindred weave intrigues and plots the likes 
of which would have amazed the di Medicis, often for prizes 
so small as to make the whole affair pointless. Sometimes 
the machinations reach across centuries and continents, 
with the authors of the schemes watching patiently as the 
events they planned so carefully unfold. Other times the 
intrigues are the creation of a moment, a contest between 
two jaded Toreador to see who can seduce or destroy a 
mortal more quickly. 

The plots serve their purpose, ultimately. They provide 
the predators with distance from one another and give them 
something with which to while away the never-ending nights. 
In the end, though, the games of intrigue are inescapable. 
Those who don’t initiate them inevitably are caught in them. 
Since it is better to be the puppetmaster than the puppet, 
Kindred caught such begin intriguing on their own, and so 
the chain continues unto the very weakest. 


How To 
Use THIs BOOK 


This book servesas the overview toall thingsCamarilla. 
It’s nota be-all end-all of everything affiliated with the sect, 
but ratheran overview of everything you need to run or play 
in a chronicle centered on the Camarilla. Most of the book 
is information for both players and Storytellers; only a few 


chapters are Storyteller-specific. If you look in here for the 


answers to questions like “Who was the Ventrue primogen 
in Poitiers in 17622", you're going to be disappointed, but 
that’s the nature of the beast. If we put in that sort of detail, 
the book would simply drown in a sea of names and dates, 
and not be very useful to anyone. On the other hand, if 
you're trying to find information on how to build a city, 
what high-level Disciplines are available to Camarilla char- 
acters, how the sect was founded and how it functions from 
night to night, all that you need is in here. The Guide to the 
Camarilla is not intended to dictate to you how to run your 
Camarilla chronicle 
stand the options available for playing Camarilla characters 
or running Camarilla chronicles. 


Rather, it’s a tool to help you under- 


BREAKDOWN 

Chapter One: (The Basics in Blood: The Sect Defined) 
isan overview of the Camarilla— what it is, where it came from, 
and where it’s putatively going. Included are breakdowns of the 
various offices, rights, privileges and Traditions of the sect, as 
well as places where those customs are starting to break down. 

Chapter Two: (Thin Traceries of Blood: The Clans) 
contains information on the clans, bloodlines and associated 
marilla. In addition to the six basic 
(along with the remaining Gangrel), smaller groups such as 
Lasombra antitribu and Gargoyles are covered. Finally, there’s 


lineages of the clans 


information on Caitiff. 

Chapter Three: (From the Beginning: Character Cre- 
ation) is a guide to Camarilla character creation, including 
additional Archetypes, Abilities, Backgrounds, Meritsand Flaws. 

Chapter Four: (Powers Beyond Understanding: Advanced 
Disciplines) details the advanced Disciplines of the Camarilla 
clans, including new Thaumaturgical paths and rituals. 

Chapter Five: (The Rhythm of Immortality: Tactics 
and Systems) is a night-to-night guide to how the Camarilla 
does everything from trials to blood hunts. 

Chapter Six: (The City By Night: Building Your Set- 
ting) is the complete guide to buildinga Camarilla city — what 
you will and won't find, what sort of mortals and immortals are 
lil 
mortal politics of the city and more. Also included isasampling 
of standard characters to populate your city with 
from Caitiffs and ghouls to princes and archon: 


ely denizens of the town, how the Camarilla influences the 


everyone 


Chapter Seven: (Tales of Imagination and Mystery: 
Storytelling) is the Storytelling chapter, with ideas for 


running all flavors of Camarilla-based chronicles. The 
emphasis is on what makes a chronicle Camarilla-specific, 
and on using the unique features of the Camarilla to help 
create stories. 

Chapter Eight: (Allies, Enemies and Others) wrapsupthe 
book, with information on anarchs, elders and ghouls (human 
and less than human), 


LEXICON 


A different existence calls for a different vocabulary. 


nemies and allies of the Camarilla 


There are titles, experiences and whatnot that are common 
matters to the Kindred that have no equivalent elsewhere 
and such things demand their own phraseology. Below is a 
listing of some of the more common terms used exclusively by 
the Camarilla to explain and define their nightly existence 
Not every Camarilla vampire knows or usesall of these terms; 
many cling to huma 
vocabulary. In the end, though, the phrases below are what 
the Camarilla uses to help define the experience of its 
members, and thus itself 


nity by refusing to adopt a vampiric 


Note: Many vampiric terms that are not Camaril 
specific can be found in Vampire: The Masquerade. 

Allthing: A gathering of Gangrel, often called by the 
eldest clan member in a particular region. A smaller gather- 
ing is called a thing. 

Anarch: A vampire who has rejected the Camarilla to 
exist as an independent. The vast majority of anarchs are 
under a century old. 

Archon: A vampire in the service of a justicar. Archons 
are rarely of the same clan as the justicar they serve so as to 
avoid the appearance of favoritism, and are deputized with a 
wide array of powers. Most archons are blood bound to the 
justicar they serve. 

Ball: A gathering of Toreador and invited guests. 

Barrens: The areas outside a city proper that are unin- 
habitable by Kindred. Generally the Barrens start in the near 
suburbs and extend outward from a city. 

Blood Bond: The supernatural love created by the act of 
ingesting a Kindred’s vitae three times. Bonds can rarely be 
broken, especially if they are periodically reinforced with 
more vitae 

Blood Hunt: The process by which a prince declares 
another vampire to be outlawed, and the prosecution (in the 
form of an actual hunt) that follows. 

Breach: A violation of the Masquerade, usually punish- 
able by death. 

Camarilla: The sect of vampires, theoretically universal, 
that defines itself by the Traditions and the Masquerade. 


Chantry: A communal haven-cum-workshop for a 
city’s Tremere. 

Conclave: A gathering of the entire sect, usually called 
by a justicar. 


The GDE 10 THe CAMARILLA 


14 


Convention of Thorns: The treaty that ended the 
Anarch Revolt. 

Coterie: A group of Kindred who work more or less in 
concert. Most coteries are made up of members of multiple 
clans, and few endure for more than a few decades. 

Court: The formal audience granted by the prince to his 
subjects, often given at Elysium. When a prince holds court, 
in theory any of the city’s Kindred may approach him to 
present themselves, request boons or otherwise make re- 
quests for favor or action. 

Domain: A territory assigned to a single vampire, who 
then has primary rights to feeding, industry and whatnot 
within her domain. 

Destruction: The power of life and death over other 
Kindred. Possessed by a city’s prince and occasionally be- 
stowed on others within his dominion. 

Embrace: The act of turning a mortal into a vampire. 

Elysium: A haven of art and culture within a Camarilla 
city. Elysiums are, by long tradition, zones wherein combat or 
the use of Disciplines is strictly forbidden. Much of the 
harpies’ work is done in Elysium 

Final Death: The ultimate destruction of a vampire. 

Founders: The legendary group of Kindred who estab- 
lished the Camarilla. 

Ghoul: 1. A mortal (usually, but not alway 
who has been fed vitae and acquired a hint of vampiric power 
as a result. 2. The act of making someone a ghoul. 

Harpy: A de facto title given to the Kindred who sit in 
judgment on the rest of a city’s social status. The harpies 
mandate the social pecking order through innuendo, rumors, 
favoritism and other such tools. 


human) 


Inner Circle: The council of elders that controls the 
Camarilla and its policies. No one knows how many Kindred 
siton the Inner Circle, let alone the clans and names of those 
who do so. 

Justicar: A roving representative of the Inner Circle 
charged with upholding the Traditions and laws of the 
Camarilla. There is one justicar from each clan, elected to 
a 13-year term by the Inner Circle and subject to replace- 
ment at the end of that term. Justicars have sweeping 
powers, including the right of destruction, to enforce the 
laws and Traditions. 

Keeper of Elysium: The vampire charged with uphold- 
ing the sanctity and quality of a city’s Elysium. 

Malkavian Madness Network: The poorly understood 
connection that linksall Malkavians by means of their shared 
altered perceptions. Outside theorists postulate that the 
network has developed some sort of link to the Net, but 
details are understandably hard to come by 

Masquerade: The Camarilla’s strict policy of concealing 
the existence of vampires from the mortal world. 


Ordeal: A form of trial among the Kindred, wherein the 
accused undergoes some sort of test (combat, sunlight, etc.) 
in order to prove her innocence. 

Pioneer: The first Kindred into a city or area. Pioneers 
often set themselves up as princes, and call for reinforce- 
ments to help them maintain their holdings. Few pioneer 
princes last lor 
most are rudely shoved aside by usurpers less inclined to 
take risks 


once they've stabilized their domains, 


Primogen: A member of the council of elders who 
putatively advise the prince ofa city. The primogen council’s 
actual power varies from city to city. 

Prince: The ruler of a city or its equivalent in the 
Camarilla; the supreme authority in local Camarilla affairs. 
The title applies to both male and female Kindred. 

Pyramid: Slangterm forthe formal structureofClan Tremere. 

Rack: The prime feeding grounds in a given city. Often 
composed of clubs, bars and shopping districts. 

Rant: A formal (in some sense of the word) gathering 
of Brujah. 

Red List: The listing of those Kindred whom the 
Camarilla most ardently desires to see purged from the face of 
the earth. Vampires on the Red List are considered under 
continual blood hunt. 

Retainer: A mortal or ghoul who servesa Cainite directly. 

Scourge: Title given toa Kindred charged by the prince 
with cleansing the city of unwanted, unauthorized vampiric 
rabble. 

Seneschal: A prince’s right-hand vampire. The seneschal 
handles many of the night-to-night operations of a city 

Sheriff: Kindred charged by a prince with the duty of 
upholding the laws and Traditions of the city 

Spawning Pools: Breeding chambers for ghouls used by 
the Nosferatu. The water of the pool is tainted with Nosferatu 
vitae, making ghouls of any and every living thing therein. 
Over centuries, these creatures can grow to monstrous size 
and power. 

Traditions: The most sacred and basic laws of the 
Camarilla, established at the same time as the sect 

Vitae: Blood. More specifically, Kindred blood, but the 
definition is not an absolute one. 


VULGAR ARGOT 


Just because there’s a word for something doesn’t mean, 


that everyone wants to agree on that particular terminol- 
ogy. The younger Kindred of the Camarilla have their own 
phraseology, which they use to establish their own identi- 
ties and to confound their elders. Most of the following 
terms are Camarilla-specific in their usage, but as slang 
knows no borders, many of these have cropped up in 
unlikely places. 


Angstburger:Over-the-top moping about one’s vampiric 
condition. Usage: Dominic was chewing on a big old angstburger 
at the Goth club tonight 

Apeshit: Frenzy 

Ash: A vampire who's been destroyed. Usage: Tomasino 
pissed off the sheriff; now he’s ash. Sometimes used as a verb, 
meaning “to kill.” 

Bloat: Taking more blood than one needs, resulting in 
reddened eyes, a ruddy complexion and the continual shed- 
ding of tears of blood. 

Blooded: A vampire. 

Boojum: Any other supernatural creature, usually 
non-vampiric. 

‘Bot: Someone clearly acting under the influence of Domi- 
nate, Often reserved for mortals reduced to automaton status. 

Brightening Sunsets: Another term for a destroyed 
Kindred. It refers to the way in which excess dust and ash 
produce particularly brilliant coloration. Usage: Lisette crossed 
the Nosferatu elder, so now she's brightening sunsets 

Cannibal: A vampire who indulges in diablerie. 

Cleanup: Repairing an Oops, or otherwise working to 
protect the Masquerade. 

Clockwatcher: A vampire who worries excessively about 
the approach of dawn. 

Collar: Blood Bond. The term has a distinctly sadomas- 
ochistic inference attached to it 

Cub Scouts: Archons. 

Dessert: Feeding for pleasure, not need 


Doornail: As in, “dead asa." Used to refer toa corpse left 


behind. Usage: We went out for supper and dropped a couple of 
doornails in the river 


Do Over: The process of erasing memories from a 
mortal’s mind. Often used to cover up evidence of feeding. 

Fossil: Derisive term for a vampire who is stuck, stylisti- 
cally, in an anachronistic mode of behavior. Often used to 
refer to elders. 

Futon: A coffin. 

Fuzzy: A Lupine. 

Grandpa: A member of a vampire’s lineage more distant 
than her sire. 

Half-Breed: A ghoul. Sometimes phrased as “Half-Blood.” 

Happy Meal: The process of drinking froma mortal who 
is intoxicated or otherwise under the influence of some sort 
of controlled substance. 

Inky: A hunter, specifically a member of the Inquisition. 

John Law: The sheriff; less frequently, the scourge. 

Juice: Vitae. 


Blood taken from a corpse. 


Lunch: Vitae, or the mortal from whom the vitae is 
obtained. Usage: I met lunch at the coffeehouse tonight. 


Lupine Alley: Travel arteries that run through Lupine 
territory, andare notoriously dangerous for vampires to traverse. 
Monster: A vampire who terrorizes younger, weaker 
Kindred. Sometimes spelled Monsta, usually by poseurs. 
Munchies: 
plines 


Hunger for vitae after heavy use of Disci- 


Nibs: The prince or any other important vampire. Not 
intended as a compliment. 

Oops: A breach of the Masquera 
Oops tonight, but it's taken care of. 


Usage: We had alittle 


Perv: A vampire who insists on indulging in mortal 
sexuality to mask the process of feeding 
PF: Short for “pity fuck.” A Kindred who receives the 
Embrace because of guilt or pity on the part of his sire. 
Prefrosh: A mortal who is a candidate for the Embrace. 
Princeling: A derisive term for the leader of a coterie. 
Rabbit: A vampire who only feeds on animals. Animal 
blood is sometimes also known as rabbit food. 
Rag: The weakest vampire in a coterie. 
Recruiting: Br 
mortal for the Embrace 


aking the Masquerade so as to prepare a 


Renfield: A long-time ghoul, usually one who has far 
exceeded normal mortal lifespan. 

Rug: A dead Lupine. Alternately, a dead Gangrel. 

Sabbot: A derisive term for the Sabbat. Pronounced 
“SAA-bet,” usually in some form of ridiculous accent. 

Sand Castle 

Scoutmaster: A justicar. 


An unsafe haven or vulnerable domain. 


Shovelhead: Sabbat vampire. 
Snap: A broken collar 
Soy: Vitae taken from an animal; a less-filling and taste- 
less substitute for the real thing. 

Speed Bumps: Mortals or inexperienced ghouls pressed 
into combat against vampires. 

Starfucker: A vampire who makes a habit of feeding 
from the rich and famous. 

Suntanning: Being staked out for the sun. A common 
punishment used by princes on rebellious Kindred. 

Teardrop: A Kindred who kills mortals on a regular 
basis. Possibly derived from certain mortal gangs’ custom of 
tattooing teardrops on the cheek of gang members who have 
committed murde! 

Tentacle: A hideously deformed vampire, usuallya Tzi 

TFBS: Bela Lugosi's Dead, by Bauhaus. Nearly univer- 
sally loathed by all Kindred, who have simply heard it too 
damn many times for the joke to be funny anymore. 

Trashman: A vampire who feeds on the homeless and 
other human detritus. The term derives from such Kindred’s 
tendency to pick up supper from alleyways or curbsides. 

Uncle: An elder who takes an interest in or who patron- 

s a younger Kindred. Sort of a vampiric sugar daddy. 


Tue GUIDE 10 THE CAMARLLA 


16 


Valentine: 1. A Kindred who uses his powers to 
achieve mortal celebrity, often in violation of the Mas- 
querade. 2. The mortal lover of a Kindred, usually the 
source of much angst 

Vector: Vampire who spreads mortal diseases; so called 
because the CDC has taken an interest in the way in which 
blood-based diseases have been spreading. 

d: A Kindred who acts in stereotypically “vampiric” 
fashion. Vlads usually wear capes, flaunt their powers and speak 
in strained Eastern European accents. Few last very long. 

Whack Job: Malkavian, or a victim of Dementation. 

Wolfie: A vampire, often a Gangrel, who prefers spend 
ing time in a non-human shape. 

Yawp: The claims of a prince or other Kindred who can’t 
hold his territory. 


OLD FORM 


The Camarilla is a sect of tradition and heritage, and 
many of its older members refuse to learn new terms to 
replace ones they've been comfortable with for hundreds 
of years. While old-form terminology is incomprehensible 
to many young Kindred — few freshly Embraced Brujah 
have any idea what a cauchemar is, for example — the 
elders insist on using it as a way of maintaining the dignity 
of the sect 

Of course, the fact that the use of such archaisms also 
renders conversations between elders unintelligible to many 
inexperienced Kindred has nothing to do with the matter. 

Autarkis: An anarch or other lawless vampire. Specifi- 
cally used by elders to refer to those rebels who took part in 
the Anarch Revolt 

Becoming, the: The Embrace 

Blood: Not vitae 
heritage. Many Kindred refer to themselves as being “of the 


but rather a Kindred’s lineage and 


Blood” of a particularly notable ancestor. For example, some 
of the most prominent Ventrue proudly declare themselves to 
be “of the Blood of Hardestadt.” 


Carthagos: Archaic form of Carthage. Any city that a 


vampire considers to be an exalted or special place. 


Diaspora: The dispersal of elders from their lands in 
Europe, remembered bitterly by many American elders. 
Also used to describe the exile of vampires from the 
Second City 

Fall, the: The Anarch Revolt, considered by many elders 
to be the first step on the road to Gehenna 

Fealty: Another name for the blood bond. 

Jus Noctis: Literally, “the law of the night.” In practice, 
the authority a Kindred has over her childer until she grants 
them their freedom as responsible members of the Camarilla, 
Under the Jus Noctis, a sire is totally responsible for her 
childer’s actions until she releases them. 

Jyhad: The great game played by the Antediluvians 
amongst themselves, in which all younger Kindred fear they 
are merely pawns to be moved about the board. 

Kiss, the: The act of taking blood from a mortal. In some 
cases the term has also grown to mean the Embrace. 

Labyrinth: A particularly well-fortified or ancient haven. 

Nemesis: The Sabbat. More generically, a vampire 
with whom another Kindred has had a rivalry extending 
across centuries. 

Noddist: Of or relating to vampiric legend. Also, a 
vampire who studies such lore. 

Pax:A formal truce between two elders or clans. Often 
the name of the Kindred who brokered the peace is attached 
to the term. 

Praxis: The right of a prince to rule. Often extended to 
mean legitimate authority 

Pueri: A derisive term for childer 

Promethean: A thief or other undesirable. Often used to 
refer to elders of the Sabbat, as opposed to the street-level 
rabble 

Siren: A vampire who seduces mortals in order to feed on 
them, but who does not kill his prey. 

Somnus: Antediluvian. More generally, any ancient 
and powerful Kindred rumored to be asleep beneath a city. 
Vessel: A mortal, often one intended for feeding. 

Whelp: A neonate or young vampire. In practice, any 
Kindred younger than the speaker. 


Society is a madhouse whose wardens are officials and police 


— August Strindberg 


The Camarilla is many things, but it is not easily defined. Is 
it the universal organization of Kindred, sheltering them beneath 
the cloak of the Masquerade? Is ita tool of the Antediluvians, used 
to keep the vampiric masses docile in preparation for the night of 
their slaughter? There’s no set answer, but everyone initiated into 
the world of the Kindred has an opinion. 


ORGANIZATION 
AND DEFINITION 


The Camarilla is, at best, a loose affiliation of Kindre 
There are few laws among the Kindred, only Traditions. 
There are no policies on immigration or borders, only cus- 
toms. Indeed, for a sect that places such heavy reliance on 
tradition and history, the Camarilla has precious few man- 
dated behaviors. Most of those are covered by the Six 
Traditions; the rest are common sense. Otherwise, the Kin- 
dred of the Camarilla actas they please, within the boundaries 
established by local princes. 

Almost all Camarilla vampires are urban. They are 
social creatures, and few who are not seeking Golconda have 
the slightest use for solitude. Even the relatively spacious 
suburbs are too sparsely populated for most Kindred to feel at 
home, so the vast majority crowd into urban hives. The basic 
population ratio is one vampire for every 100,000 mortals; in 
some neighborhoods that can drop by 75 percent, while in 
others, there are no vampires to be found at all. 


The rule of the Camarilla is theoretically the rule of 
princes. While the sect claims the entire world as its 
purview, there are regions (the American Northeast, for 
example, and Central America) wherein the Sabbat holds 
near-absolute sway. Furthermore, as the Camarilla has no 
true centralized government, only an Inner Circle that 
meets infrequently and a roving enforcement squad of 
justicars, the attitude of the sect toward its territories can 
best be described as laissez-faire. As long as there aren't 
obvious problems, each prince is free to run her domain as 
she sees fit. Clan ties are often stronger than sect ties, and 
this also makes it difficult to impose central authority on 
the Camarilla’s membership. In truth, though, many el- 
ders say in private that the lack of central authority in the 
Camarilla is a good thing; any attempt to impose more 
regulation on a bunch of ancient and powerful Kindred 
would only meet with disaster. As is, the Camarilla rules 
with a light touch and an eye toward preventing disaster, 
not creating policy 

Commerce and travel between Camarilla cities is brisk, 
though the former is usually carried out by mortal catspaws. 
ions is difficult 


Travel through Lupine- or Sabbat-infested re 
and unsafe, somany vampiresspend centuriesatatime inasingle 
metropolis. Those who rove either leam survival skills very 
quickly or meet Final Death within a few short years. There are 
no legal restrictions on traveling, other than the Tradition of 
Hospitality (see page 23), so those Kindred who dare to wander 
can do so with equanimity — so long as they are polite. 


The Basics n Biooo:Tre Secr Dennen 


19 


The Camarilla has no standing military, other than the 
cadres of justicars, archons and alastors whose work more closely 
resembles espionage or special ops. Each city is responsible for its 
own defense, drawing from its own population to guard its 
bordersand territories. Occasionally one city will “lend! support 
toanother, but such maneuvers are rare; too many timesthe city 
offering help has found itself under attack immediately after 
detaching part of its strength to assist a neighbor. 

Socially, the Camarilla is an exceedingly polite society. 
With bloodshed outlawed and carefully watched for, it has tobe. 
Salons, Elysiums, meetings and deal-cutting — all of these are 
part and parcel of nightly social life for the sect’s Kindred. Even 
the Nosferatu occasionally indulge, climbingout ofthe sewersto 
sell secrets orshock the Toreador with their presence. Insultsand 
damningpraise, left-handed complimentsandshocksto vampiric 
composure — the art of delivering such is one of the highest to 


which the Kindred of the Camarilla can aspire. 


A VERY BRIEF 
HISTORY 


The Kindred ofthe Camarilla trace theirsect’s path from its 
roots in the Renaissance through the birth of the modern 
democracies in the 18th century to the present night. Though 
some elders speak longingly of the days before the Masquerade, 


modern Kindred are most affected by events in the last five 
centuries, The study of vampiric history is a most curious one; 
while human history relies on dusty records and shattered relics, 
in manycasesthe Kindred witnesses to important eventsare able 
and willing to describe those events directly toa moder listener. 

While this fact has its benefits (as any mortal historian 
could tell you), it carries with it the disadvantage of perspec- 
tive. Vampiric minds, like human ones, unconsciously edit 
their memories in light of personal wishes and agendas. Elders 
who misrepresent the past may not be lying about historical 
events; the Toreador who was on the fence during the French 
Revolution but who profited from a democratic Frances likely 
to forget the reasons he ever had doubts about the uprising’s 
success. From there it is a short step to forgetting that he had 
such doubts at all. Human memories can be wildly inaccurate 
within hours of an event; can it be any wonder that vampires’ 
memories lose their fine edge after a century or two? 

Nearly all Kindred, however, agree upon certain historical 
events and forces. The history of the Camarilla has been 
shaped by three constant conflicts: the struggle of the elders to 
retain their powerand relevance in the face of youngerKindred 
fighting for power and respect; the eternal risk of rediscovery by 
the kine; and the war between the Camarilla and Sabbat. 
"These core conflicts shaped the three:most important eras in 
the history of the Kindred: the formation of the Camarilla, the 
expansion into the New World, and the modern day 


THe FOUNDING 


The Camarilla’s roots date back toa crucial event in 1381 
— revolt by mortal peasants in England against the local 


THe GANGREL DEPART 

The Gangrel have been part of the Camarilla 
since its inception. As such, their sudden and unex- 
pected departure from the sect was a tremendous 
shock, not only to the rest of the Camarilla but to the 
other clans and sects as well. Kindred of all genera- 
tions and affiliations are scrambling to adjust to the 
new balance of power — whatever that might be. 

Both the circumstances and causes of the Gangrel’s 
departure are hazy to outside observ 
close to the clan. Rumor has it that the former justicar 
Xaviar, rather than stand for re-election before the 
Inner Circle, merely walked into their presence, ut- 
nd then turned his back on 
both the council and the sect. What that sentence was 
remains a topic of much debate among Kindred who 
consider themselves to be “in the know,” but it's 
unlikely anyone other than Xaviar and the Inner 
Circle know the truth. There was no formal resigna- 
tion of allegiance, no ceremony of departure 
night the elders of the clan decided that belonging to 
the Camarilla was not in their best interest. Word was 


ers, even those 


tered a single sentence, 


passed through the usual channels, and within a month, 
the bulk of the clan had simply stepped away from the 
sect. Any attempts made by Camarilla (or other) 
Kindred to ask separatist Gangrel about the move get 
two-word answers if they're lucky, rough treatment if 
they're not. The Gangrel simply don't want to discuss 
it. They left, and their reason for doing so was good 
enough for them, so that ends the discussion. Pressing 
the inoue 4 a certain way to get oneself seriously hurt. 


nobility. These mortals were aided in this cause by freedom- 
loving Cainites (the term “Kindred” was not yet in vogue) of 
many clans. Though the humans’ revolt was soon put down, 
the spark of revolution spread among disenchanted young 
vampires throughout western Europe. Oppressed childer be- 
gan attacking one another's sires in a bid for freedom from 
eternal servitude; opportunistic childer took advantage of a 
chance to increase their own power through diablerie. Kindred 
historians will later point to this rebellion — more specifically, 
toan attack on the Ventrue Hardestadt by the Brujah anarch 
Tyler — as the true beginning of the Anarch Revolt 

The early 15th century saw a number of setbacks for the 
elders of Europe. The anarchs, emboldened by Tyler's suc- 
cess, staged a terrifying coup and destroyed the Lasombra 
Antediluvian. They attacked the Tzimisce Antediluvian as 
well, and claimed his destruction. The rebels even discovered 
a means of breaking blood bonds, and coordinated their 
attacks with Assamites, who were only too happy for the 
chance to commit diablerie on European elders. 


In 1435, Hardestadt called a convocation of elders to 
deal with the anarch problem. He proposed that a league of 


The Gude To THE CaMARILLA 


20 


vampires be formed to address problems that crossed territo- 


rial or clan lines. Though most elders were suspicious of the 
idea and rejected it, a small group joined Hardestadt. Over 
the next decade this group pushed the idea of the Camarilla 
more subtly, in small councils and one-on-one meetings 
By 1450, the Founders of the Camarilla had enough 
support from European elders that they began to assert their 
authority, directing cross-clan coteries in attacks on anarch 
strongholds. At the same time, the Founders encouraged a few 
coteries to search out the Assamites’ hidden fortress of Alamut. 
The centralized power of the Camarilla seems to have 
been the key to the anarchs’ defeat. In 1493, leaders of the 
Anarch Movementacquiesced to the Camarilla’s demand for 
a convention to discuss the terms of the anarchs’ surrender 
The Convention of Thorns brought most of the anarchs back 
into the Camarilla proper and arranged for the punishment of 
an Assamite for its role in the fighting. It also saw the 
oreador Rafael de Corazon’s first public speech demanding 
the enforcement of the Traditions with the Masquerade 
Those anarchs who rejected the terms of the Convention of 
Thorns fled, later to form the Sabbat 


THe New WORLD 


Though some elders had heard rumors of a land across the 
Atlantic Ocean, none were prepared for the impact the open: 
ing of the Americas had upon the new society of the Kindred 
Though the newly formed Sabbat waged war on the Camarilla 


The Basics N BLooD:Thi 


21 


in Europe through the 16th century, the New World would 
become the real chessboard for the war between the sects. 

The elders of the Camarilla saw the Americas as a place to 
send troublesome childer. To the ancillae of the Camarilla, the 
Americas were aplace to carve outa fief without having to wait 
for the death of one’s immortal master. Thus blessed with a rare 
unity of vision, the Camarilla sent many of its most promising 
ancillae to the New World. These Kindred staked out their 
territories in English, Dutch or French colonies, as the Sabbat 
influenced Spain, Portugal and their transoceanic assets. 

This arrangement settled into a sort of stalemate. While 
Camarilla vampires had interests on both sides of the Thirty 
Years’ War, and may have helped to encourage the French and 
American Revolutions, there waslittle movement in the struggle 
between sects. Allegiances solidified, rhetoric was tossed back 
and forth, and skirmishes were fought to little effect, but mostly 
the 17th and 18th centuries were a time of retrenchment and 
reinforcement for the Camarilla. Burgeoning industrialization 
moved more and more mortals to the cities and opened new 
avenues of power; the clans of the Camarilla were more inter 
ested in pursuing those than in fighting off war packs. 

The War of 1812 between the young United States and 
the British Empire concealed an all-out war for control of the 
Atlantic seaboard between the Sabbat and Camarilla. Pincered 
by Sabbat territory in Quebec and Florida, the American 
Camarilla lost the East Coast a city at a time over the next 50 
years. The Camarilla managed to retain control of a few key 


cities after the onslaught, but the fighting in the nighttime 
streets has never truly ended, If truth be told, these nights the 
Camarilla is losing ground faster than ever. 

Thenextdecisive battle between the SabbatandCamarilla 
would not occur until the mid 1800s, as the two sects fought for 
control of the newly opened frontiers. Both saw opportunity in 
the wide expanses of land, room to grow and entrench them- 
selves so thoroughly as to be impossible to dislodge. The 
Camarilla came extremely close to losing this (and, according 
some scholars, America itself), but several sudden losses on the 
Sabbat side granted the staggered sect a reprieve, allowing 
them toforce the Sabbat’s hand back. Some claim to this night 
that only these losses allowed the Camarilla to maintain itself 
in America; such claims, however, usually bring chilly silences 
to the rooms where they are mentioned. 


THe 20TH CENTURY 


When empires grow calcified, stuck straining against 
another, force applied to precisely the right point can 
trigger a huge reaction. Mortal revolutions against the old 
royalty and staid governments combined with new social 
theory made for a volatile mix that encouraged Sabbat 
incursions into cities in turmoil and left the Camarilla oc 
sionally scrambling to muster defense. 


one 


Numerous forces conspired to take control of Europe 
during the devastating depression left in the wake of the 
Great War, but none of the vampiric sects involved were able 
to exert enough influence to do much more than nudge 
European society one way or the other before the rise of Adolf 
Hitler in Germany. Wise Kindred without access to the halls 
of power in Europe got out of the way and let the kine fight 
their war. Foolish Kindred tried to direct the tides of battle, 
and were usually crushed by them. 

The postwar boom was good for the United States, and by 
extension, it was good for the American Kindred. American 
anarchs had taken advantage of the war's chaos by overthrowing 
the princes of many West Coast cities; firm action by princes 


such as Lodin in Chicago quelled the tide of anarch expansion 
by the late 1960s. Chicago came to prominence as America’s 
First Kindred City soon thereafter. All across the continent, 
however, the Kindred presence expanded. Cities boomed with 
waves of immigration and the decline of the rural communities, 
and more mortals meant more food for the Kindred. 


Public fascination with vampires surged in the late ‘80s, 
providing an unexpected (but not entirely unwelcome) boost 
to the Masquerade; many mistakes could be written off as 
misguided mortals trying to be trendy. However, italso meant 
that when breaches happened, they were more unforgettable 
and difficult to cover up. New markets and industries became 
new opportunities for younger Kindred to advance when 
older vampires blocked the traditional routes to power. The 
new generations of vampires bore exceedingly thin blood, 
sometimes such that they could not create progeny, and these 
tides of youth found themselves searching for routes to the 


same rights and power as their elders. Still, the ranks of the 
Camarilla increased, and within those borders proscribed by 
enemies too strong to dislodge, it prospered. 

"Today things are changing too quickly for de paundiced 
elder eye to follow. The return of Hong Kong to China means 
the loss of the only Camarilla toehold in East Asia, and rumors 
abound thar the Cachayan vampires may be makinga move on 
the Aimerican Pacific Coast: Quiet war rages along the Aichi- 
can East Coast, as the Camarilla tries to retake long-contested 
tettitory or-at least prevent the Sabbat fom gaining further 
ground. Only in Europe do things remain relatively static for 
the Kindred; the elders there have long since learned how best 
to keep control no matter the changes to kine society. 


THe TRADITIONS 


The Traditions are the laws of the Kindred, but especially 
those of the Camarilla. The customs codified in the six Tradi- 
tions have been in place in some form long before the formation 
of the sect; some Noddist scholars believe that Caine himself 
handed them down to his childer. Others dispute this claim, 
makinga 
like. In the end, though, it doesn’t matter. The Traditions 


I sorts of arguments about linguistic structure and the 


exist, and have the weight of centuries behind them. These six 
laws are the universal legislation of the Camarilla. All the rest 
is just commentary and addenda. 

All Camarilla neonates are expected to learn and under- 
stand the Traditions. Ignorance is no excuse when it comes to 
a violation of one of these precepts. These laws are absolute; 
any violation of them is met with swift and severe retribution. 

Unless, of course, it isn’t — and it is those lapses in enforce- 
ment that can make unlife in the Camarilla so interesting. 


Tue First TRADITION: THE MASQUERADE 

The Masquerade is at the heart of the Camarilla’s very 
existence. The fact that vampires are real must be hidden from 
mortal eyes. Violations of this Tradition are usually punishable 
by death, if not worse. Every Camarilla vampire is supposed to 
be on watch for violations of the Masquerade, and to stop any 
breach he might come across. Failure to halt a violation of the 
Masquerade, or to report such to the appropriate authorities, is 
almost as bad as breaking the Tradition itself; the Camarilla 
takes the Masquerade very seriously. As a result, sheriffs and 
their deputies constantly scan the Rack and the barrens for 
even the slightest errors in upholding the Tradition. While the 
other laws of the Camarilla are occasionally subject to looser 
interpretation, the First Tradition remains inviolable. 


THe SECOND TRADITION: THE DOMAIN 

The meaning of this Tradition has changed in the 
modern era. Once Domain meant territory, pure and simple. 
That was all well and good in nights when the Kindred were 
scarce and each could claim a city asher own, but things have 
changed. Now cities host, in extreme cases, up to a hundred 
Kindred. Modern metropolises have sprawled beyond the 


‘Trt GUDE TO THE CAMARLLA 


2 


capability of any individual vampire to control directly. And 
so, the meaning of domain has been forced to change to meet 
the challenges the modern Camarilla faces. 

In theory, the prince still holds domain over his entire 
city. He then has the option of parceling out areas of control — 
from city blocks to whole neighborhoods or boroughs — to be 
held by the Kindred of his choice. While the prince still holds 
ultimate authority, these smaller areas are a combination of 
fieflom and controlled hunting preserve for the vampires lucky 
enough to receive them. Of course, those Kindred are also 
responsible for enforcing the city’s laws within their domains, 
so domain comes with responsibility as well authority. 

The concept of domain, however, is one of the most 
misunderstood in the Camarilla. Old and powerful vampires 
often stake out their own claims of domain, and unless the 
prince is willing to risk war to dislodge them, such claims are 
often allowed to stand in exchange for token favors. Neonates 
and anarchs claim their havens and the areas around them as 
domain, when really they just have squatter’s rights. Usually a 
prince is content to let these petty claims pass and ignore the 
matter. It’s not worth her time and energy, after all, to perse- 
cute every piss-ant anarch for misusing the term. So the prince 
still holds domain over the city, grants lesser domain totrusted 
servants or potential allies, and accepts claims by those strong 
enough to hold them or too weak to worry about. 

Recently, the concept of domain has undergonesomething 
ofan alteration. The term used to refer strictly to real estate, but 
within the past hundred years the word “domain” has been 
applied to industries as well. Hundreds of Kindred claim local 
software, steel, heavy manufacturing, export and other busi- 
nesses as domain, setting themselves up to rule both the physical 
plants appropriate companies possessand their business dealings 
aswell. A similar conceptsaw experimentation during the nights 
of the Italian merchant states, but ultimately failed. Since the 
beginnings of the ‘90s, the idea has been resurrected and seems 
to be gaining momentum. Now, an ambitious young Ventrue 
lobbies the prince fordomain over the local software ortelecomm 
industries, not a dozen-block holding on the north side of town. 
Most elders are content to let the childer chase such ephemera, 
buta few worry as to what sort of power the younger Kindred are 
actually accruing for themselves. 


Tue THIRD TRADITION: THe PROGENY 

One of the most difficult problems facing the Camarilla 
is that of numbers. Vampires beget more vampires, and 
population control is a far more serious matter than among 
mortals. Having too many vampires in a city threatens the 
Masquerade and makes hunting difficult. On the otherhand, 
having too few Kindred leaves the city open to attack. As a 
result, princes naturally want to know how many Kindred are 
in their cities, and to whom they putatively owe allegiance. 
Hence, the rise of the Third Tradition 

In the Camarilla, the right to create progeny is one of the 
most fiercely sought-after boons a prince can offer. So long as 


hecontrols the right to bring mortals into the blood, the prince 
has a never-ending stream of Kindred currying for his favor. 
The dispensation to create is one of the most powerful tools a 
prince has in his arsenal for buying the loyalty of his subjects. 

Wise princes enforce the Third Tradition ruthlessly. 
Strict adherence to the custom means that the prince knows 
how many Kindred are in his city, who sired them and what 
clan they belong to. Not only does this give the prince an 
accurate assessment of the resources available to him, but also 
gives him a picture of city demographics (and if things are 
becoming too unbalanced in someone’s favor). 

In recent years, the Third Tradition has been advanced 
by some princes to cover the creation of ghouls as well, 
primarily in America (European princes still see ghouls as not 
worth worrying about in this fashion). While unofficial tabs 
have always been kept on precisely how many retainers a 
given Kindred might have, the Camarilla’s increasing reli- 
ance on its mortal servants has sparked a more serious interest 
in ghoul demographics as well. The debate still rages as to 
whether ghouls can and should be included under the Third 
Tradition, but in cities where princes choose to do so, the 
penalties for unauthorized ghoul creation are as gre: 
for unauthorized Embraces. 


tas those 


THe FOURTH TRADITION: THE ACCOUNTING 

Bringing a mortal into the world of the Camarilla is a 
tremendous risk. Any neonate has the potential to blunder 
spectacularly, and thus to bring down the Masquerade. As a 
result, a new vampire’s sire is held responsible for that childe’s 
actions — all of them. Any penalty the childe’s behavior 
earns, the sire faces in full. Older princes in particular take 
this Tradition seriously, feeling that the Accounting forces 
young Kindred to take the Embrace seriously and choose 
their progeny carefully. 

A sire is responsible for her childe’s actions until such 
time as the neonate is presented, that is to say, officially 
introduced to the prince as a fully fledged member of the 
Kindred community. After that presentation (and assuming 
the prince accepts the neonate as being worthy of dwelling in 
his city), the new vampire is treated as an adult in Camarilla 
society. He is responsible for his own actions, and his sire no 
longer has to worry about being staked because of his errors. 

Because of the risk attendant in siring a childe, some 
Kindred try to rush the presentation process as much as possible. 
Tocounter that ploy, many princes have resorted to givinga sort 
of oral examination of the neonate, making certain he is well- 
versed enough to take his place properly in Camarilla society. If 
the neonate fails, the consequences for both him and his sire are 
severe; exile is the most common punishment. 

In rare cases, a neonate who has been presented to the 
prince and turned loose proves to be a work in progress. If the 
neonate’s incompetence can be laid at the feet of a sire who 
didn’t train him properly, princely wrath is apt to fall on all 
the concerned parties. 


The Basics in Bioon:Te Sect Dennen 


3 


Tue FIFTH TRADITION: HOSPITALITY 

Predators are always very polite with one another. Social 
graces keep them from tearing into one another on sight, and 
allow them to establish relationships other than kill-or-be- 
killed. The Fifth Tradition is a perfect example of this sort of 
social buffering, as it allows Kindred to move in one another's 
territory without immediately coming into conflict 

Acits simplest level, the Fifth Tradition is simply a mandate 
forall strangers enteringa city to present themselves to the prince. 
The presentation can take many forms, from a simple greeting to 
arecitation of one's lineage (British and Dutch princes often insist 
on the latter, much to the annoyance of their visitors, who 
frequently attempt to insert spurious ancestors into their lineages 
tose if someone's napping) to a demand for service while in the 
city. Princes who demand the latter generally don’t last long, 
though it is technically within their rights to do so. 

By accepting a vampire who presents himself, a prince 
grants that Kindred permission to stay, dwell and hunt within 
hiscity. By presenting himself, the vampire acknowledges the 
prince’s authority and ensures that he is isn't immediately 
brought down by a scourge who doesn’t know him on sight 

More and more vampires are circumventing or ignoring 
the Fifth Tradition these nights. Some feel that any sort of 


mandatory appearance at the prince's behest might be a trap 


or a sell-out. Others simply don’t wish to recognize princely 
authority in any way, shape or form (elder Kindred — 
particularly if the prince in question is younger than they — 
many anarchs and some independents see things thusly) 
However, by refusing to present herself, a vampire becomes 
an outlaw, and she moves from the prince's jurisdiction to the 
sheriff's — or the scourge’s. 


THe SIXTH TRADITION: DESTRUCTION 

According to the oldest known readings of this Tradi: 
tion, the Sixth grants a sire the right to destroy any and all of 
his progeny. Under the Camarilla’s auspices, that right has 
been usurped by the prince, who now holds the right of life 
and death over all of his subjects. He cannot exercise that 
right too cavalierly, lest he risk a coup to deprive him of this 
power, but through the office of the blood hunt, a prince can 
sentence any Kindred in his domain to death. 

Partand parcel with this princely power is the restriction 
of that power to the prince, and only the prince. Sires are still 
allowed to destroy their childer before presentation, but 
otherwise kin-slaying is strictly outlawed in Camarilla d 


In theory, the Masquerade extends to all vam- 
pires, which means that the members of the sect 
spend a fair bit of time cleaning up after breaches 
made by independent or Sabbat vampires. Oddly 
enough, though, even those vampires who profess to 
hate the Masquerade and all it stands for rarely make 
that much noise among mortals, either. Curiouser 
and curiouser... 


i GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 
24 


mains. Any Kindred who seek to usurp the prince's privilege 
and end another vampire’s unlife more often than not find 
themselves on the receiving end of a blood hunt. Even sires 
attempting to reclaim what was once their birthright find 
their ancient right denied them; once a neonate has been 
presented, he is the city’s and not the sire’s. Creation and 
destruction are the two most potent weapons in a prince’s 
arsenal, and he guards them jealously. 


THe MASQUERADE 


The Masquerade is the sine qua non of the Camarilla, the 
single binding thread that holds the sect’s fabric together. In so 
many words, the Masquerade is the policy of hiding vampiric 
existence from mortals. Such a drastic policy demands draco- 
nianenforcement, meaning that the Camarilla takesnochances 
with potential breaches of the Masquerade. All it takes is one 
heartfelt confession from a lovelorn neonate or one interview 
granted by a vampire desperate for the spotlight to blow the 
entire matter wide open, so the Camarilla refuses to allow risl 
Neonates are instructed in the preservation of the Masquerade 
from the moment of their Embrace, all vampires are charged 
with preserving it, and sheriffs and scourges are granted the 
power to kill in order to preserve it. 


WHY THE MASQUERADE? 


One might think that the Kindred, with manifold super- 
natural powers at their disposal, would have no need to hide 
from humanity. Instead, by dint of sheer power, the Kindred 
should rule, and do so openly. Why should vampires, the 
ultimate predators, hide from the human kine? 

The answer to that question issimple: Because there are 
an awful lot of human kine out there. The best estimates 
currently available to the Camarilla peg the human-to- 
vampire ratio at 100,000 humans for every Kindred. That’s a 
lot of humans, and not many Kindred are up to taking out a 
hundred thousand mortals if push comes to shove. 

As a result, concealment really is the best policy for the 
Kindred. Initiated in the days when the Inquisition demon- 
strated a marked talent for flushing out and exterminating 
vampires, the Masquerade serves to keep humanity ignorant. 
The resources of the kine are vast, and should they be turned 
to destroying the Kindred, few vampires would survive the 
purge. It is infinitely safer for the Kindred to rule from the 
shadows, to direct subtly rather than rule openly. Otherwise 
they run the risk of a war with the herds on whom they 
depend, a war they cannot possibly win. 


METHODS 

There is a basic etiquette that each and every Kindred 
should follow in order to preserve the Masquerade. In a 
nutshell, the policy is “No witnesses.” Don’t flash your fangs or 
your claws in front of mortals, don’t let anyone see you feeding 
or disposing of a corpse, don’t take a clip full of bullets to the 
gut and then let the gunman get away to sell his story to the 
tabloids, don’t let your vessel live without doing something to 


conceal his memories of your feeding — in other words, don’t 
bestupid. Remembering these admonitions, however, isharder 
than one might think, especially for younger Kindred. They 
tend to get excited or flustered, or to lose control during 
feeding, and thus make messes. Ancillae and older vampires 
almostnever make accidental breaches of the Masquerade, and 
when they do so, they take care of their own affairs. 

However, slips and accidents do occur. Witnesses do 
spot feedings and uses of Disciplines, sometimes even repu- 
table witnesses. Fortunately for the Camarilla, the other half 
of the sect’s policy for preservation of the Masquerade has 
been in place for a very long time. 

Thesect, in addition to trying to preventactive breaches, 
also maintains a massive disinformation campaign designed 
tomake mortals think that vampires couldn’t possibly be real. 
Assisted by Polidori, le Fanu and Stoker, the Camarilla has 
used narratives and images to cement the notion of the 
vampire in the popular consciousness as a fiction. Every 
straight-to-video fangfest, every trashy novel with a vampire 
plunging his fangs into a nubile woman on the cover, every 
patently absurd “documentary” with investigative fallacies 
apparent to a child — all of these reinforce the notion that 
vampirism is just a convenient cultural trope, good for an 
infinite number of fictional variations but nothing more. 

Sowhen the formerly reputable citizen comes screeching to 
his local news station with videotape he has shot of a vampire 
feeding at a nightclub, the video is dismissed as a home movie. 
The puncture wounds left in a young woman by a sloppy feeder 
are from a “copycat” killer with a “vampiric modus operandi.” 
Blood-drained corpsesare the work of Satanic cults—asseen on 
tabloid television. Westem civilization no longer wants to 
believe. Any mortals who do are mocked as naive or deluded, 
even in the face ofhard evidence left behind by careless Kindred. 

And thus is the Masquerade maintained. 


BREACHES 

Regardless of the Camarilla’s best efforts, breaches in the 
Masquerade do occur. When catastrophe strikes, the sect’s 
cleanup efforts are intense and immediate. Kindred with 
influence in the media lean on their allies and ghouls to kill or 
bury any incriminating stories. Witnesses have their memories 
wiped — or simply disappear. Physical evidence is tampered 
with or stolen; undeveloped film is particularly easy to corrupt. 
The credibility of anyone coming forward to testify about 
vampires comes under immediate attack; wise princes have a 
finger on “expert witnesses” and psychiatrists who can be used 
to demolish a witness’ credibility in minutes. Alternate expla- 
nations for incontrovertible evidence —drained corpses being 
one example — are put forward and pushed by media outlets. 
In short, everything possible is done to confuse the issue. The 
efforts of the city’s Kindred are bent toward this goal, momen- 
tarily unifying them in a desperate defense of the Masquerade. 
After all, squabbles about who gets to be Ventrue whip won’t 
mean much if a city of 12 million people suddenly transforms 
itself into a torch-wielding mob. 


The Basics in Biooo:Tue Sect Dennen 


25 


And the instigators of all of this effort? The poor souls 
who breached the Masquerade and triggered the entire cover- 
up? If they are lucky, they'll be staked. If not, things can get 
ugly. Princes have been known to expose particularly egre- 
gious offenders to sunlight, an inch at a time, over a period of 
months or years. The torments of the Kindred can last a very 
long time indeed, for those who warrant them. 


F 
WHO SWHO 
INTHE CAMARILLA 


Tue INNeR CIRCLE 

The Inner Circle is the ideal cabal; it is the unobserved 
model for the “Secret Masters” so many conspiracy theorists 
speak of. The Kindred of the Inner Circle are those who pull 


the strings of the entire sect, creating justicarsand casting them 
down with equal equanimity. Noone knows who the vampires 
of the Inner Circle are, but none can deny that the Inner Circle 
is the true hub around which the Camarilla revolves. 

Once every 13 years, the very eldest elders of the 
Camarilla’s clans meet to discuss the sect’s future direction 
and current business. Other vampires may be brought in to 
speak, but only the elders may cast their clans’ votes. The 
lesser clans and bloodlines have no represenation here, and 
the presence of others is at the Circle members’ sufferance. 

During this time, the members of the cabal appoint 
justicars (replete with wrangling, threats, bargaining and 
other such talk), consider and determine the Camarilla’s 
direction for the next 13 years, and rule upon Camarill: 
issues. Many believe that the members of the Inner Circle 


wide 


continue to correspond through the years, directing the 
demand 
it. None are certain how the members of the Inner Circle 
achieve their position, except simply by surviving to bea ripe 
old age and ascending to monstrous power. 


justicars as necessary and meeting if circumstances 


Who comprises the Inner Circle manages to remain one 
of the Camarilla's best-kept secrets. It is known that they are 
supposedly “the eldest” of their clans, but that definition is 
open to debate. Some believe that the Inner Circle’s compo- 
sition haschanged over the centuriesasone clan representative 
oranother met Final Death, went into torpor or simply went 
missing. Others believe that the members of the Inner Circle 
serve other factions in their clans’ unlive 
ex 


the Tremere, for 
ample, suspect that a member of their Council of Seven sits 
with the Inner Circle, but as none have ever tested the 
theory, it remains speculation. Such secrecy is largely a 
matter of tradition, but in these nights it has be 
of grave securit 


‘ome a matter 
. With the assassination of Justicar Petrodon, 
the vampires of the Inner Circle realize anew that they are the 
ultimate prize, and take no chances with their unlive: 

Few Kindred, even the justicars, quite know what the 
Inner Circle does with most of its time. Many believe that 
they remain in touch with the elders of their clans, keeping 
their fingers on the changes within the rank and file and 


A CLASH OF TITANS 

A justicar's actions may only be challenged by 
another justicar, which can lead to some high-level 
quarrels. If things grow too heated, a conclave may be 
called by the parties or another justicar to resolve the 
matter before it gets too out of hand. As a number of 
bitter Kindred can attest, when justicars decide to start 
duking it out, few are safe from being used and abused 
ata whim. Fighting justicars have even been known to 
pawns, and a prince who dares to object 
may find herselfhostingarchonsasa result of trumped- 
up charges. Such tactics often ensure that the objector 
isthrown outandsomeone more pliable is put in place, 
even if it destabilizes the city. When things escalate to 
such a level, every Kindred runs for cover or begs for 
outside help. Because of such abuses, elders and 


use cities 


younglings alike resent the influence the justicars 
wield over Kindred life, but the justicars’ power and 
resources preclude many disgruntled vampires from 
doing anything more about it than grumbling. 


gathering news from their justicars so that they may consider 
what needs addressing at the next meeting. Optimistic vam- 
pires even believe that the Inner Circle Kindred occasionally 
teach their younger brethren, choosing one particular vam- 
pire as a designated successor against that inevitable night 
when a chair sits empty at the council table. 

aroused the Inner Circle's great collective 
anger have usually done so in spe r fashion, resulting in 
spectacular punishment. The most impressive punishment that 
can be leveled against an offender is a place on the Red List, 
essentially guaranteeing the criminal an etemity-long, Camarilla- 
wide blood hunt. The Inner Circle may call upon the justicars to 
add their strength to the hunt, who in turn call upon their many 
resources to hound an offender to the ends of the earth. 


Those who hav 


acula 


THEJUSTICARS 

These six mighty vampires are appointed by the Inner 
Circle to be their eyes, ears, hands and occasionally fists. 
Appointment is a long, drawn-out (and occasionally drown- 
out) process as each clan fights to place a strong member in 
perhaps the most powerful position any Kindred can hold. Too 
often compromise candidates win out, but occasionally the 
process achieves its stated goal and a truly deserving, powerful 
and dedicated vampire ascends to the position of justicar. 

Sometimes, compromise candidates are ignored, or the 
Inner Circle attempts to manipulate them. Either action can 
backfire; those appointed to the position, even those who 
weren't expecting it, usually take up the mantle with full 
seriousness. Those who are ignored may quietly amass re- 
sources and allies behind the scenes, while those the Inner 
Circle attempts to misuse may bite the hands that feed them 
and proceed to demonstrate their grasp of the power that has 
been given unto them. 


Tht GUDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


26 


The Basics in Biooo:Tue 


21 


Justicars enjoy immense power over Kindred society and 
the Camarilla across the board, excepting of course the Inner 
Circle. They alone have the ultimate power to adjudicate 
matters involving the Traditions, and do so on a grand lev 
A justicar may call a conclave at any time, either to make a 


ruling or with a peer to make joint decisions of sect policy 


When one of these powerful vampires makes even a polite 


request, very few Kindred dare refuse 

Justicars do not only serve as grim judges and agents of the 
Inner Circle. They encourage the social aspects of conclaves, 
goingso faras to host conclavesso that Camarilla Kindred may 
meet others of their kind, meetings that might otherwise never 
occur without the opportunitiesof conclave. With their power, 
the justicars can ensure that a insane or despotic prince is 
removed before he does too much damage to the populace, or 
turn the tide of battle against the enemies of the Camarilla. A 
right or wrong word at the proper moment from a justicar can 
be better coin than gold or status for desperate Kindred 

In the end, though, justicars are regarded with awe and 
fear. Their wrath is terrible, and their power is immense. No 
Kindred dares to refuse them, even if it aids in that vampire’s 
own destruction. They stride the Camarilla like colossi, and 


the shadow they cast is long indeed 


THe ARCHONS 

Archons are the minions of the justicars, set to act in their 
names for whatever suits their purposesand needs. As no justicar 
can be everywhere he might want or need to be, an archon can 
makecertain his presence isfelt (ifnotseen). Archonshave been 
part of the Kindred hierarchy for almost as long there have been 
justicars, although they were not officially named until some- 
time in the late 1600s, most likely by the Brujah owing to the 
Greek origin of the word. Archonsare typically chosen from the 


ranks of ancillae and “young” elders, who show some promise by 
their maneuvers in the halls of power. The tenures of Kindred 


appointed to the post last for as long as their employers wish to 


THe Justicars 
As of the Inner Council meeting of 1998, the 
justicars were: 
e Brujah: Jaroslav Pascek 
e Malkavian: Maris Streck 
e Nosferatu: Cock Robin 
e Toreador: Madame Guil 


© Tremere: Anastasz di Zagreb 


e Ventrue: Lucinde 

With the exception of Madame Guil, all of the 
justicars are new. Lucinde is no stranger to the halls of 
power, but this is the long-time archon’s first appoint- 
ment tothe high chair. Xaviar, former Gangrel justicar, 
was the last of his clan to hold the title, as with the 
clan’s “formal” withdrawal from the sect there is no 


need for a Gangrel justicar. 


Dernen 


retain them, and the employer can become the office, not the 
person occupying the chair. On the other hand, some justicars 
select entirely new staff upon their appointments. Recently, the 
new Nosferatu justicar, ina veritable tantrum of paranoia, threw 
outall of Petrodon’s archons, including Horatius Muir, who had 
served Petrodon since the latter’s first appointment. Horatius 
has not taken the loss very well, and his fellow archons, both in 
and out of clan, fear that the former archon will seek gruesome 
revenge for the insult. 

Not every archon strides into Elysium with her mission 
statement in hand and announces herself to be here on 
justicar business. Justicars often need watchers or other quiet 
workers in troubled cities, and the best ones simply appear, do 
their job and leave with as little fanfare as possible. Archons 
are not as far removed from typical Kindred unlife as their 
superiors. Mostare able to insert themselves into city business 
without attracting much attention and gain the trust of 
others, who rarely suspect that their newfound compatriots 
are so powerful. Occasionally, justicars choose archons more 
for their particular insights into a subject, their skills or their 
political savvy, which does not always walk hand in glove 
with high profile. Princes have been known to object to such 
moles, but too much protest brings the notice of a justicar 
who wants to know what a noisy prince might be hiding. 


THe DRince 

Ostenibly, the prince is the Camarilla’s voice in the city 
she rules. In theory more of a magistrate or overseer than an 
absolute ruler, it the prince who keeps the peace and makes the 
laws, whatever is necessary to keep the city orderly and safe 
from incursion. The prince wears many hats, including diplo- 
mat, commander in chief, lawmaker, patron of the arts, judge 
and Tradition-keeper. The position originally began with the 
strongest vampire in a given region claiming domain over it 
Over time, certain privileges and responsibilities became at- 
tached to the position, either at the whim of the ruler or the 
demands of the ruled. The position reached its familiar modern 
form during the Renaissance. What exactly the princedom will 
evolve to in the future is the subject of much hushed specula- 
tion, but never when the local prince is within earshot. 

There are several waysone can become prince of acity.One 
is to depose the old prince. This insurrection may take the form 
ofanything froma bloodless, elder-supported coup toa full-s 
war with the gutters running with blood. If a prince shows 
himself incapable of maintaining the safety of the city against 
incursion, he may be forced to abdicate by the rest of the 
Kindred. Another way is to become seneschal and hope the 
prince either dies oris forced from office. Of course there are ways 
to help that sort of thing along, provided one doesn’t mind a few 
risks that could spell Final Death if one is caught. If one is in 
small town or a largely rural area with a scattered population, 
evenayoung Kindred may name himself prince. Many times, the 
elders prefer the relative safety of the cities, and find rural areas 
both dangerous and boring. Those young vampires who choose 
to brave the small towns occasionally set themselves up in a 


cale 


semi-structured organization, with the “prince” being the one 
who has the biggest gun or has earned the most respect. Such 
titles (Prince Garrett of the Finger Lakes Region, or Madame 
Charlotte, prince of the Seven Sisters Hills) sound more grand 
than they truly are, and rarely carry weight with the elders of 
nearby cities 

A prince is owed nothing by her “subjects.” Indeed, once 
they follow the protocol of Tradition, most have plenty of 
other things to keep busy with. A prince rules only so long as 
she can enforce order, her subjects are sufficiently frightened of 
her might and the elders support her. If any of those factors 
disappears, her reign is at an end. On the other hand, ifall’s in 
place, then the Kindred of the city can count on being stuck 
with their prince fora good long while. The elders ensure that 
a prince's reign is maintained in the name of stability; turmoil 
in the streets endangers the Masquerade and risks Final Death. 
a great deal of power, one of the major 
reasons anyone would ever seck the job in the first place. She 
often gathers great temporal influence in the mortal world to 
n be dealt with effectively; few 
someone who could have 


A prince enjoy: 


insure that threats to her c: 
become inclined to do too much to 
their phone lines “accidentally” cut when a gas line is being 
dug. She may freely create progeny, while other vampires 
must seek her permission before siring. She may extend her 
power over those who enter her domain, and may punish her 
enemies by calling the blood hunt. Whether the perks out- 

igh the burden of the job is a nightly debate in the halls of 
Elysium, but enough Kindred seem to think so that there is a 
never-ending struggle in every city for ascent to the throne. 


THe DRIMOGEN 

The primogen is the assembly of elders ina given city. Each 
clan usually hasat least one representative primogen (the title is 
used to indicate both singular and plural), in addition to any 
other elders of the clans who wish to sit in on the meeting. No 
seems quite certain when the primogen body came into 
being, but most Kindred scholars interested in such things point 
to the councils of elders that have been part of mortal commu- 
nities for milennia. Wherever the organization came from, the 
primogen councils continue into the present nights as clan 
leaders, filling seats of remarkable power. As a result, the 
primogen are eithera prince's greatest allies or his worst enemies 


one 


Ostenibly, the primogen council is meant to be a legisla- 
tive body, a representation of the opinions of the various clans 
with regard to the governance of their city. Such an assessment 
is correct in very few cities. Some primogen councils are 
missing one or more clans, their elders forbidden by princely 
edict to take their seats, or because the clans are composed 
entirely of younger vampires and the elders will not deign to 
acknowledge the clan'sright torepresentation. Those primogen 
who are seated in many cities are less like an assembled body 
and more like an “old vampires’ club,” a nest of nepotism, 
favor-trading, threats and treachery. In some cities, particu- 
larly those with small Kindred populations, the prince is often 
the primogen for his clan. In larger cities, this is not so— those 


Tre Guide 10 THE CAMARILA 


28 


involved claim that the prince should be concerned with 
balanced governance of the city, and that serving as primogen 
divides his loyalties. Other Kindred point out that having a 
second clan member serving as primogen would seem to weigh 
matters in favor of that clan. Not so, reply those asked. Some 
ofthe most vicious disagreements between prince and primogen 
can be between two members of the same clan who happen to 
disagree on a particular policy. 

The primogen can hold a great deal of power, whether or 
not it is granted them. Made up of elders who love their 
unlives with nigh-obsessive fervor, primogen councils can 
squash pretenders to the throne, weak princes and outspoken 
youth in the name of stability. It is their support that confirms 
a vampire as prince or sentences him to be food for the worms. 
Ifthey wish, the primogen may drive a prince from office with 
their recalcitrance or votes of no confidence, or ensure a 
prince's longreign with their powerful support. Some primogen 
councils can become the governing body of a city, with the 
prince continually engaged in fighting with, cajoling, arguing 
or threatening them back into line. On the other hand, in 
cities where the princes are more powerful than most, insane 
or despotic, the council meets solely at the prince’s whim and 
is often merely a figurehead assembly. 


THe WHIp 

Sometimes, even the most organized primogen can be 
overworked and stretched too thin with demands for his time. 
Add to this a slow-moving discussion at clan meeting, recal- 
citrant clan members and general voter lassitude, and the task 
of primogen can become unmanageable for any lone Kindred. 
It was for these times that the position of whip was created. 

The whip is not an official position within the hierarchy of 
the Camarilla, but rather a recent phenomenon that seems based 
almost solely in countries with a democratic legislature. Whips are 
used in the mortal governments to keep members of a political 
party informed as to each other’s doings, to keep discussions 
productive and to round up the appropriate members when it is 
time for voting. In Camarilla cities, a number of clans employ 
whips for similar purposes. Princedoms within the United King- 
dom and United States make the most use of the post. 

A primogen may choose not to employ a whip if the 
situation does not merit it. After all, when the local branch of 
aclan numbers four, and one is serving as primogen, keeping 
the rest informed is usually a simple matter. On the otherhand, 
in a large city with eight clan members, a whip can be very 
useful. Some clans have occasionally pressed their primogen to 
appoint whips when it became obvious that the primogen was 
overwhelmed with business. Whip appointments are usually 
conditional; often the whip is a Kindred who is of some 
influence within the clan so she will be listened to, but not so 
much that she potentially overshadows the primogen himself. 
A whip who begins to outshine his employer is likely to be 
replaced. Sometimes, a whip position may not be a reward but 
a warning. Since the whip is required to stay close to the 
primogen and mind his ways, appointing a troublemaker can 


be an effective way to put him on the hot seat and channelling 
his energies into something more constructive (or put him 
under the spotlight until he inevitably makes a mistake). 

Whips in clan meetings serve to goad discussions along 
by whatever means necessary. This can include filling in 
details the primogen has inadvertently forgotten, shouting 
down more vocal clan members to allow the quiet ones a 
chance to speak up, insulting someone into blurting out his 
true opinion or throwing out the occasional inflammatory 
gambit just to get the ball rolling. Whips may also attend to 
those reclusive clan members who cannot or will not attend 
clan meetings for reasons of their own. 

In some cities, the whip is viewed as the primogen’s 
second, given authority to sit in primogen meetings if his 
master is absent, or standing at his right hand during the 
meetings, ostenibly to s ‘stenographer” for the clan. 
More often, the whip is taking notes on everything else 
occurring during the meeting that the primogen may not 
notice while speaking or dealing with the prince, such as 
clothing worn by the other primogen, gestures and manner- 
isms, tone of voice and reactions by those not primarily 
addressed. Such an observant whip can be worth his weight 
in gold when it comes time to interpret the meaning behind 
another primogen’s uncharacteristic objection. 


Tve as 


THe SENESCHAL 

In the mortal world, the seneschal was the keeper of the 
keys in a noble house, the minder of the affairs, the one who 
always knew what was happening and who was closest to the 
master’s ear. It was the seneschal who was in charge when the 
master was away, and who took care of the estate in time of 
disaster. In the vampiric world, the position hasn’t changed 
much from its original inception, The seneschal is chosen to 
be the prince’s personal assistant, the orie who knows what's 
going on atany given moment, and (according to some wags) 
the one you really have todeal with to get things done. Atany 
time, he may be asked to step into the prince’s place if she 
leaves town on business, abdicates or is slain. 

While a prince may wish to have final authority on the 
choice, a number of primogen councils have fought to ensure a 
seneschal candidate to their liking is installed. If the prince is 
seen as weak or is not well-liked, the fight becomes even fiercer. 
After all, accidents do happen, the primogen insist, and it were 
best that the next in line is someone worth having to avoid 
entanglements at such times. Princes insist that the choice is 
theirs to make, particularly when the seneschal 
sensitive position. They point to certain disasters in Kindred 
history regarding the seneschal, most often the Nuremberg 
Incidentof 1836, whenaSabbat spy managed toachieve the post 
and the city narrowly avoided being completely overrun after he 
handed over the secrets he had learned to his cohorts. 


s in such a 


For most seneschals, the job can be a completely thankless 
one. It may be seen as a stepping-stone up the ladder to greater 
things, but the rewards aren’t always commensurate with the 
tedium and danger. A seneschal can be called on to be a 


Tut Basics in Boon: Tie Secr Dennen 


29 


secretary, clearinghouse of information, prince pro tem, advisor, 
sounding-board, recepient of vitriol, ambassador or point of 
contact forany new Kindred entering the city. Some princesmay 
have other uses for their seneschals, such as sitting in on certain 
meetings as the prince's voice when the prince must be absent, 
or even to deal with certain matters which princes deem not 
worthy of their attention. Fora prince busy with other concerns 
(suchas hunters, Setites or Sabbat), a capable seneschal whocan 
take care of all the nitpicky details of running a city can be a 
godsend. If the seneschal is incompetent, however, he can be a 
nightmare. A seneschal unaware of the movements of new 
Kindred in the city may be in fact inadvertently holdingthe door 
for Sabbat troops, or one who has closed down a church on 
suspicion of harboring hunters may have just alienated the 
Nosferatu who made use of the place as well. 

A number of s 


eneschals have taken advantage of their 
positions, using them to become often the most well-in- 
formed Kindred in the city, even outstripping the harpie: 


Some, as clearinghouses of information, may selectively edit 
what their prince does and does not know (on 
to-know basis, with the s 
needs to know what). Othe: 


agenda if it suit 


strictly need- 
neschal of course deciding who 
s may block items on the night's 
s their purpose, most often when the Kindred 
bringing the business has offended the seneschal in some wa 
As the seneschal is frequently closest to the prince's ear, he 
may inform the prince as he wishes regarding matters of 
business or policy — lies of omission are a seneschal’s stock in 
trade. If someone is offended with the way the seneschal 
handles business, the humble vampire may claim that he is 
merely the prince’s voice, and shift the blame upward to an 
undeserving prince. A wily seneschal with ambition on his 
mind and a prince burdened with the cares of a large domain 
can be a lethal combination. 

The selection of a seneschal has any number of criteria, 
varying from prince to prince, and from primogen to primogen. 
Some prefer tractability over trust, while otherssee some indepen- 
dence and common sense as ideal qualities. Few primogen have 
ever permitted a seneschal to be of the same clan as the prince, 
seeing it as invitation to disaster in the form of clan favoritism. 


THe Harpy 

The harpies are the gossip-mongers, the rumor mills, the 
status-givers. They are the word in the wrong ear, the ones 
who can make a vampire’s unlife miserable for the sin of 
wearing an ugly tie or returning an insult. Many of the best 
(the most observant, the sharpest tongued, the wittiest) 
harpies are elder age, although not a few talented ancillae 
hold their own in these halls of hidden power. Neonates are 
rarely anything more than a 
established harpies, simply because they are too new to the 


istants and apprentices to 


nuances of unlife’s etiquette to understand what's happening. 
A neonate who attempts to ascend to full harpy status too 
soon finds her betters turning on her mercilessly; most have 
the ambition verbally flayed right out of them by this treat- 
ment. If she’s lucky, they'll simply let her embarrass herself. 


Harpies are rarely appointed outright. Those with the 
necessary skills were often part of the elite social scene in life, 
spending their lives as famous gossips, dilettantes and social- 
ites. Asin life, these social butterflies hover where the beautiful 
people can be found, and simply fall in doing what they did 
before. They are unimpressed with preening, demonstrate 
remarkable insight into both vampiric and human nature, and 
can boast an unerring ability to see through pretense and pose. 

A leading harpy may choose to name an assistant or two, 
particularly ina city witha sizable Kindred population. Afterall, 
even the best harpy can hardly hope to keep up with things when 
there are Elysiums occuring at both the Academy of Fine Arts 
and at the local Hard Rock Cafe. A major metropolitan city, 
suchas Vienna or London, may contain at least six Kindredwho 
are considered to be the main harpies, in addition to the 20-plus 
others who serve as additional eyes, ears and sources of material. 
aller city, as few as two may hold the position, although 
the question of who is actually in charge is another matter 


Inasn 


(which no doubt is fought over incessantly). In smaller towns 
and rural areas, harpies are often completely dispensed with, but 
here and there one may find a vampire who presides over the 
diminished social scene like an undead Hedda Hopper. Most 
harpies tend to be of “social” clans, such as the Toreador and 
Ventrue, but not a few elder Brujah or slightly more lucid 
Malkavians have been known to occupy the seat as well. 

Not only concerned with who said what to whom, harpies 
are also interested in the intricacies of Kindred etiquette. 
There is a right way to do things and a wrong way to do things, 
and the harpies make sure things are done right. Someone on 
the harpies’ hit list often finds himself banned from all the 
premiere social gatherings, and itisnotall that difficult to incur 
this sort of ostracism. Rudeness, crudeness, speaking out of 
turn, showing disrespect or blatant stupidity — all of these can 
place a vampire squarely in the harpies’ crosshairs. 

While some might sneer that the disapproval of a few “old 
biddies” doesn’t mean much in the grand scheme of things, the 
harpies (and their victims) beg to differ. In an era where the 
most recent news can be passed nigh instantaneously between 
harpies along a web of gossip that staggers the imagination, the 
harpies in one city can assure an offender that he receives a less- 
than-cordial welcome in any city he visits. It is the harpies who 


assist with the brokering of and recording of prestation deals. 
Harpies are often called on to assist their princes when digni- 
taries visit. In these modern nights, the harpiesare busy indeed, 
dealing with the ramifications of email as a proper method of 
correspondence, the propriety of requesting an elder to step 
through a metal detector or the polite way to suggest that a 
potential disease-carrier hie himself to the lab for testing. 


THe Keeper of ELYSIUM 

The job title is self-descriptive — this Kindred is respon- 
sible for everything that occurs in Elysium and usually its 
environs as well. A Toreador wishing to schedule a recital, a 
Tremere giving a lecture on medieval alchemy or two Brujah 
who are hosting a debate regarding current Kindred involve- 


Tht GUIDE 10 THe CAMARILA 


30 


Harpy Tactics 

When the harpies cut loose, they do so with razored 
tongues honed sharp enough to glisten. While insults 
may not seem like they would matter much toa vampire, 
in an arena where wit is the only weapon (such 
Elysium), a vampire who relies on brute strength is 
helpless before the harpies’ assault. A particularly cun- 
ning insult will be picked up and repeated by dozens of 
other Kindred, humiliating the target wherever he goes. 
Just as bad is the snub, a cold shoulder turned by the 
harpies and those currying their favor en masse. A 
vampire ostracized thus is in an impossible position — 
he can’t walk out without making more of a laughing- 
stock of himself, while staying invites more frustration 
and barely audible titters from those in on the snub. 

While these techniques seem mild compared to, 
say, ripping someone's throat out with Wolf's Claws 
and a healthy dose of Potence, one must remember the 
context. The Kindred dwell in a society wherein 
internecine violence is strictly proscribed; one cannot 
respond to an insult by hauling off and slugging one’s 
tormentor unless one is very, very careful about it. A 
vampire targeted by the harpies literally cannot strike 
back without incurring the wrath of the prince, the 
sheriff and the harpies’ clan elders — a host of enemies 
who are capable of turning any lone offender rapidly 
into ash. Social warfare becomes the only acceptable 
warfare, and the harpies have everyone else outnum- 
bered and outgunned 


ment with the police — all must speak first with the keeper. 
The keeper may cancel an event at any time, even minutes 
before it is to begin, on the grounds that it threatens security 
and the Masquerade. (Whether or not the cl: curate is 
irrelevant; the keeper has that authority to use as she sees fit.) 
courge’s right of 


im is a 


Such power, while not as impressive as th 


destruction, can be used to great effect; the vampire who has 
spent months puffing himself up over a recital at Elysium only 
tohave it blithely cancelled stands to lose a great deal of status. 
Keepers may be of any clan; most are at least of ancillae 
status, which gives them the pull they need to hire or create 
sufficient security for Elysium. Contrary to popular thought, the 
majority of keepers are not Toreador. Such Kindred tend to get 
distracted from their duties too easily in Elysium’s environs. 
The jobcomes with heavy responsibility and very few perks. 
A keeper isresponsible foreverythingthat occurs within Elysium’s 
walls on his watch (and occasionally off it too). While the 
position isa prestigious appointment, and itcan garneraKindred 
a great deal of status and recognition, it puts that Kindred under 
a microscope almost as intense as the prince's. Because the 
position requires the keeper to interact with mortals on a fairly 
regular basis, monstrous Kindred (whether in mien or de- 
meanor) are never considered for the job, unless they have some 


way to disguise themselves. The appointment is also usually a 
conditional one — the keeper can expect to be scrutinized for 
the several gatherings regarding his policies on the Masquerade, 
mortals, security and Elysium in general. The harpies are not 
kind toa failed keeper, if he’s still around to accept their scorn. 

On a nightly basis, the keeper must be certain Elysium 
abides by the major rules regarding the established Traditions 
and the Masquerade. He may be responsible for stopping weap- 
ons at the door, a job he often requests the sheriff perform. On 
occasion, he may need to play host, circulatingamonghis visitors 
and makingsure thingsare goingsmoothly. Ifthe prince requests 
that refreshments be provided, it’s the keeper's job to procure 
them. When several Kindred want to make use of Elysium to 
stage some event (such as dancing lessons, a debate or even a 
music recital), the keeper needs to juggle the social calendar to 
ensure that everyone gets a turn and that the Brujah’s often- 
noisy debates will not be trampling the Malkavian performance 
artist's exhibit of silence. If curious mortals peek in the windows, 
or a hapless mortal security guard wanders into a Kindred 
gathering by accident, the keeper must see about removing the 
intruders neatly. If an incident occurs that attracts the wrong 
kind of mortal attention, the keeper needs to clean itup, and he 
may call on any necessary resources to doso. Relying on this sort 
of iat too often, however, isa good way todrawa prince's ire, and 
the best keepers are often those who are noticed least. 

“As is the keeper, so goes Elysium,” is a familiar saying 
around the halls of power, and itis quite true. A keeper who is 
continually paranoid about infiltrators runs Elysium with a grip 
that can approach a stranglehold, and presents gatherings that 
are reminiscent of a prison yard’s rec time. A keeper who has 
agreat interest in the arts may favor salon-style gatherings that 
welcome any with something to contribute, while one more 
interested with social interaction would encourage elder- 
supported meetings suggestive of the Algonquin Round Table. 

Ofall the positions in a city, this one is the most likely to 
change hands frequently. The position is very much a political 
football, kicked back and forth between prince and primogen. 
Furthermore, the role offersa Kindred tremendous opportunities 
tofail; sooner or later every keeper manages to offend somebody. 
A wise keeper knows when to resign; foolish ones hang in until 
thebitterend. Ifa vampire playsher cards right, she may hold the 
position of keeper three or four times within a few decades, 
talented keepersare often elevated into the role again and again 


THe SHERIFF 

While the sheriff's job description may vary from city to city, 
his primary function is to be the prince’s “enforcer.” He generally 
assists with the “muscle” aspects of ruling, doing everything from 
hauling offenders into court to keeping order on the streets and 
occasionally bouncing fools from Elysium. During wartime, the 
sheriff is often called on to be the war-chief, leading charges and 
coordinating the martial side of the fight. A sheriff may select 
deputies to assist him, who often act fully in his authority, butsuch 
appointments usually require the prince’s approval. 


The Basis in Biooo:Tr Sect Desineo 


31 


TO THE CAMARL 


32 


Far and away, the Brujah and the remaining Gangrel 
provide the most sheriffs, although anyone with something of 
a martial bent may be selected. Since part of the sheriff's 
duties include watching for breaches of the Masquerade, a 
sheriff is also required to show a little brains in addition to 
brawn. Straight-ahead brawlers are becoming less common; 
operators who are precise in their applications of force have 
become the norm. 

Keepers of Elysium and sheriffs can be each other's best 
friends or worst enemies. A keeper who insists on dealing 
with security herself at Elysium risks stepping on the toes of 
the sheriff, who believes that such an action indicates to the 
harpies he’s incompetent. A sheriff who muscles into Elysium 
and conclave security without asking about existing plans 


may alienate the keeper, depriving him of much-needed 


support when it comes time to press for tighter security 


measures (such as heat sensors). On the other hand, when the 
two offices work hand in hand, particularly during conclaves, 
they can weave a web that could hold back the sea. Keepers 
and sheriffs often have a great deal to say regarding the 
selection of the other, and it is not unknown fora particularly 


tightly knit pair of Kindred to hold both offices jointly 


THe SCOURGE 

Some claim the position of scource is a relic of medieval 
times, an older form of the sheriff, while others believe that the 
post was created only within the last decade (with an equally 
new-minted pedigree). However the scourge came to be, the 
office is now part of the landscape of many Camarilla cities. From 
Bern to Portland, scourges take their mandate to scour the 
borderlands and barrens of the major metropolises. Their targets 
are fledgling vampires created without permission, anarchs and 
those thin-blooded mules of the 14th and 15th Generations. 

Proceedings regarding the scourge vary from city to city 
Some princes grant their scourges the right of destruction to 
peed the process of purging along, while other princes 
demand that the scourge bring the night's “catch” to Elysium 
for judgment. This last comes in light of some recent tales of 
over-enthusiastic scourges attacking and killing vampires 
who had followed protocol and were known in the city, but 
happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. The 
story currently circulating through Elysium describes a feral 
Gangrel scourge who encountered three Kindred ina derelict 
building in the barrens of Milwaukee. As he had been given 
full authority to destroy any Kindred he did not recognize, the 
scourge made quick work of the trio, who were unable to give 
much resistance. He brought back trophies of his work, to the 
consternation of the Tremere primogen, who recognized the 
personal effects of three recently acknowledged neonates; 
apparently they had gone looking for a private place to 
perform a ritual. The prince initially refused to disbar the 
scourge, but the outrage of the primogen council and the 
wrath of the united Tremere clan forced him to reconsider 

Not every prince makes use of the scourge — indeed, a 


number of princes (usually of smaller or less “prestigious” 


TemptinG Fate 

Most of the Kindred who deal with humanity do 
so with a very careful eye toward the Masquerade. Such 
vampires understand the risk they run every instant, 
and take great care not to threaten the veil that 
protects them from mortal wrath. 

Then there are the daredevils. Vampires of this 
sort, for whatever reason — boredom, usually, though 
“latent Sabbat sympathies” are often blamed — like to 
see how close they can come to shattering the Mas- 
querade without actually doing so. This sort of game 
can go on for years before the players eventually slip, 
with each player coming closer and closer to the edge. 
If the participants are lucky, theirshenanigans come to 
the attention of the sheriff, who puts the clamps on 
before any serious damage is done. If not, the Masquer- 
ade suffers what is colloquially known as an “Oops” 
situation, and all hell breaks loose. 

Needless to say, the vampires responsible for the 
breach never, ever survive the cleanup. 


cities) see it as a dangerous and unnecessary office. The 
legality of the scourge is still under debate in a number of 


circles, particularly with regard to granting these gendarmes 
the right of destruction. Many sheriffs see the scourge as 


chipping away at their power, and asa result they can be the 
greatest obstacles to a prince or primogen who wishes to 
introduce the scourge to a city. On the other hand, some 
sheriffs see the scourge as taking care of a problem that 
occupies too much of their time when they could be dealing 
with an infinite number of other matters, such as Sabbat 
incursions or persistent hunters. A number of vampires, 
largely those who occupy the barrens on a regular basis and a 
lon” vampires, also see the scourge as 
courge gone bad or working for the 


surprising number of “s 
a potential threat; a 
enemy could be deadly, especially if the prince gives the 
scourge a lot of leeway in her dealings with the thin-blooded. 
Scourges in general are not the most popular vampires 
around. Most are loners, and if they are not initially, the 
demands of the position soon ensure that they are. Few 
Kindred are comfortable around the local scourge, and even 
princes hold their hired exterminators at arm’s length. Em- 
bittered and isolated, most scourges soon grow disdainful of 
Kindred company, shunning Elysiums in favor of “work.” A 
few far-sighted Kindred (usually those who have some psy- 
chological work in their backgrounds) continually attempt to 
draw their local scourges into Kindred social life, fearing that 
without social contact scourges will become automatons, 
killing machines unable to tell the difference between friend 
or foe. Such efforts have met with mostly poor results. Some 
scourges scorn such “do-gooder” attempts as muddling with 
their thinking, while others find the forced jollity only 
emphasizes the gulf between them and their fellow Kindred. 


THe Huppien Mas 

Not every Camarilla vampire holds title; far from it, in 
fact. The vast majority of the sect’s members attend to their 
own business. Some do have ambitions to achieve power 
within the sect. These vampires pay careful attention to 
matters political 
plotting their ascents to power. Others avoid the matter 
entirely, presenting themselves to each prince in turn, then 
vanishing back down into the sewers or thaumaturgical labs. 


nd may spend decades or even centuries 


The fact of the matter is that each vampire has eternity 
stretching before him, and he had best find himself something to 
do before the crushing ennui of the ages drives him mad. Active 
participation in politics is an option for only some of the 
Kindred; there are only so many titles to go around, after all, and 
promotion is a slow and bloody process. That means that the 
Kindred need to find other interests and outlets, all the while 
adhering to the Traditions and preserving the Masquerade. 

The most common diversion for the Kindred involves 
dabbling with mortals. This interaction can take many forms, 
from indulging in the arts (all-vampire bands are surprisingly 
common) to meddling with corporations. Other Kindred try 
to resume or assume mortal lives, living among mortals in an 
attempt to further their agendas or stave off boredom. Most 
often, though, a vampire who decides to spend his nights 
interfering with mortals picks a particular field or institution 
— one often mandated by the prince, who has no interest in 
seeing her subjects squabble over a particularly juicy industry 
— and then sets about working with his plaything. Kindred 
grow protective of their mortal connections, tending them 
with the same care and passion that a gardener expends on a 
prized bonsai. It is often not a matter of the vampire actually 

aring for the specific area he has domain over (though there 
are exceptions) as it isa question of possession. Such vampires 
often take a great deal of interest in the night-to-night 
concerns of their connections, diving into the details as a 
means of distraction. Sometimes Kindred carry on mortal 
crusades beyond the grave, but sooner or later those concerns 
fade. The form of the vendetta remains, but the motivation 
shifts; sooner or later, the chase is what matters more than the 
goal. It is not uncommon for vampires who achieve goals 
they've been pursuing centuries to slip into torpor shortly 
thereafter; there’s nothing left to interest them anymore. 

On the other hand, there are those Camarilla vampires 
who have no interest in dealing with humans. The Masquerade 
isaconvenient excuse toavoid interacting with humanity save 
at feeding time. These recluses are more interested in matters 
vampirical: thaumaturgical research, vampiric philosophy or 
artistic expression, or other endeavors only possible for those 
with unending lifespans. Like those Kindred who throw them- 
selves into the Masquerade, though, vampires who stick to 
immortal concerns have an overriding passion for what they 
do. In the end, what matters is not so much what each Kindred 
does, but rather that they do so emphatically, to keep them 
from drifting aimlessly into madness and eternity. 


The Basis in Buooo:Tee Sect Dennen 


33 


t even those who lived long ago before us and were sons of our lords, the gods, themselves half 
divine, came to an old age and the end of thier days without hardship or danger, nor did they live forever 


— Simónides of Ceos, “The Comments of Siménid 


The core of the Camarilla, the heart of its strength, is the 
collectionof vampirieclanswhobandedtogetherinthe I5thcentury 
todrapetheMasqueradeoverKindredexistence. Itistheinteractions 
of those core clans, the compromises and adjustments they have 
made in order to deal with one another, that have given the 
Camarillamuch ofitsshape, definition and flavor. Tounderstandthe 
Camarilla at all, it is first necessary to know the clans — and the 
bloodlines, stragglers, refugees and hangers-on — that comprise it. 


SIE... 


As things stand, six clans serve as the core of the Camarilla. 
The Brujah, Malkavians, Toreador, Tremere, Ventrue and 
Nosferatuare firmlycommitted tothe Camarillaand whatitstands 
for. The antimibwof these clansare adistinct minority; numerically, 
the vast body ofeach of these lineages supports the Camarilla. The 
clansdoso, not out of any sense of altruism or innate goodness, but 
rather because the elders of those clans believe that the sect and its 
attendant customs offer the best hope of survival. Of course, the 
question of whose survival always hangs, unspoken, but the 
distance between elders and neonates is great enough that what 
filters down from generation to generation loses the patently self- 
servingedge that one mightattributetothe elders’ pronouncements. 
Forsomanynew Kindred, the Camarillaissimply The Way Things 
Are Done, and theirs is not to question — at least not at first. 

Even those who grow restless and start to question, 


however, usually return to the fold. 


” Richard Lattimore, trans. 


CLAN DRESTIGE 
Clan Prestige is an additional Background Trait used to 
keep track of a vampire’s standing within her clan. Clan 


Prestige bears absolutely no relation to a Kindred’s regular 
n be highly respected by other Nosferatu 
but despised by the Camarilla as a whole, or a Brujah prince 
might be well-respected by his peers, but loathed by his 
clanmates as a sell-out. Normally a vampire can only acquire 
Clan Prestige forherown clan, buton rare occasionsone ofthe 
Kindred has done enough service for one of the other lineages 
toca Clan Prestige rom themaswell. Examplesofthiswould 


Status; a vampire 


be a Toreador who, despite his sensibilities, regularly feeds 
gossip from Elysium and the salons to the Nosferatu, or a 
Gangrel archon who, in the course of performing her duties, 
foiled a Sabbat plot to assassinate a Ventrue prince. 

Clan Prestige normally runs up toarating of 5, though 
elders and legendary figures (such as those found in the 
appendices of clanbooks) can have Clan Prestige up to 10. 
Clan Prestige cannot be bought with experience. It can 
only be bestowed through roleplaying by the elders and 
other members of the clan in question. Furthermore, 
infamous or stupid acts, or the influence of the harpies, can 
strip a vampire of Clan Prestige easily. Respect within 
one’s clan is hard to earn and easy to lose, and the way in 
which Clan Prestige is handed out should reflect that. 


Tron Tracenes oF BLoon:Tie Crans 


35 


BRUJAH 


», how the mighty have fallen. Such isthe perspective the 
elders of other clans have on the Brujah. Younger Kindred, who 
do not remember the clan’s nights of philosophy and glory, see 
the Brujah as a disorganized, anarchic rabble. Then again, in 
these degraded times entirely too many members of the clan fit 
that description, or at least enough that the stereotype has 
become widely accepted 

With hallowed Carthage just a fading memory, the Brujah 
have become the angry young men (and women) of the 
Camarilla. Constrained by the Camarilla’s traditions and kept 
in their place by ruthless elders, the street-level Rabble take out 
their frustrations by moving in packs, indulging in Rants and 
generally adopting a bad attitude at odds with the enforced 
gentility of Elysium and the Ventrue 

These nights, the Brujah shun the halls of power. Theclan’s 
younger members have little interest in playing the Ventrue’s 
games or exposing themselves to Toreadorridicule: Instead, they 
stand as the (mostly) loyal opposition to the sect, essentially for 
the Camarilla but with little interest in its rules and regulations. 
Elders may takea more philosophical bent in line with the clan's 
direction at the time of their Embrace, but the common ima 
of the Brujah now is that of the leather-jacketed rebel. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENCE 

Within the Camarilla, the Brujah have relatively little pull 
amongprinces. With the clan’s penchant for getting into trouble 
(the legendary Brujah temper can produce equally legendary 
breaches of the Masquerade or other Traditions), few princes are 
willing to give them much beyond the time of night. Brujah 
princes are rare, though a surprising number of sheriffs and 


scourges are members of the clan. As many of the quote-unquote 


abble” that these officers must deal with are Brujah as well, the 
conflict can make for interesting infra-clan politics. 

In truth, the Brujah have their strongest influence on the 
streets and in the ivory towers. Of all the clans, they have the 
strongest hold on mortal academia, a relic of the clan's nights as 
would-be philosopher-kings. Elders still work hard to pull from 
that base of potential Embracees, but these nights, the clan's 
primary interests lie elsewhere 

Once ruling from fortresses and training halls, now the 
Brujah rule the streets, primarily through sheer numbers. Many 
Brujah came from or were familiar with a rough-and-tumble 
lifestyle, and chose to continue it beyond the grave. Like calls to 
like, and vampires who came from the street have made a habit 
of Embracing those from the street as well. The clan has the 
widest variety of membership of any of the Camarilla clans; in 
many cases a flash of attitude ora demonstrated unwillingness to 
take crap isall that it takes to earn someone the Embrace. All the 
rest, the Brujah reason, can be taught 


ORGANIZATION 
The usual response one gets when asking the Brujah about 


their clan structure is either laughter or a punch to the gut. The 


Brujah are the most disorganized of the clans, shunning formal 


wG 


meetings in favor of informal Rants (often held after concerts or 
particularly energetic parties). There are no “Boards of Directors” 
orformal awards of status among the Rabble; instead like-minded 
Brujah get together toswapnewsandbrag,ortoargue aboutdamn 
near anything. Somehow, news manages to get disseminated by 
thishaphazard fashion, butanyone hopingtocatchall ofthe local 
Brujah ata sit-down meetings in fora world of disappointment. 
The only organization the Brujah have is a rough breakdown 
along philosophical lines. Younger, more anarchic Brujah are some- 
times called Iconoclasts (though their response to the term isn't 
printable), and it is from these vampires that the stereotypical image 
oftheclan derives. Oldermembersofthe clan, called Idealists (though 
they prefer somethingin Greek most ofthe time) are more interested 
in the ideals of the clan and reclaiming the scholarship and philoso- 
phy that was once theirs; many are of an age to recall Carthage. 
Idealists look down on the Iconoclasts as unruly children, while the 
Iconoclasts sneer at the Idealists as do-nothing fossils. Caught in the 
middle are the Individualists, who straddle both camps in age and 
temperament. Needless to say, they catch flak from both sides. 


CONCERNS, 

There are almost as many concerns among the Brujah as 
there are Brujah. As the clan falls short of a unified policy on 
pretty much anything, it’s hard for a single issue or concern to 
rouse the clan's ire. The anger over Carthage still burns hot for 
theancients, but few Brujah created in the last millennium care 
much for the issue. Iconoclasts raise howls about selective law 
enforcement and oppression by the Ventrue, but such cries 
often fall on deaf elder ears. 

The only concern that draws members of the clan together 
across party lines is the encroachment by the Sabbat. The street 
is where the Sabbat operates, and that means that the Brujah 
take the brunt of any initial Sabbat assault. As a result, the 
Brujah feel (rightly or wrongly) that they are being used as a 
buffer by the other clans against the Sabbat (“Willing to fight 
to the last Brujah” is a common joke). A few loudmouths have 
even gone on record as saying that if they don’t get any help, 
next time the Brujah should just let the antitribu through, but 
such sentiments are not yet common throughout the clan. 


PRactices AND CUSTOMS 
Brujah customs are a hodgepodge of half-remembered 
mortal rites, dusty traditions passed down absently from sire 


HuMAnity 

The Ventrue may have their fingers in the mortal world 
up to the elbow and claim they have the most interaction, the 
Brujah run an extremely close second. The difference between 
the clans’ interactions lies in their approaches. The Ventrue 
seek out mortal institutions, but the Brujah seek out individu- 
als. As a result, the Brujah might not pull the strings on a 
mayoral candidate, but may well have connections to people 
that candidate steppedon duringhisclimbtothe top—andthe 
information gathered from such contacts can be as useful as 
anythinggarnered byamulti-million dollar Ventruecampaign. 


CLAN PRESTIGE 

Brujah clan prestige is bestowed more for attitude than 
specifics. The clan has at least a rough allegiance toward 
weakeningauthority and promotinganarchy,andactswhich 
accomplish both or either win their performers status within 
the clan. Telling offa prince, disrupting a Ventrue deal (and 
living to tell about it), tweaking the Tremere or exposing a 
corrupt mortal politician for the fraud he is—all of these can 
win a Brujah points with her elders and peers. Unfortu- 
nately, the Brujah penchant for going after the high and 
mighty often turns the youngsters of the clan on their elders, 
which means that matters of prestige can get touchy. Re- 
warding a neonate for acts which subvert a Brujah elder is 
asking for trouble, but is also true to the spirit of the clan. 
Younger Brujah also have a habit of ignoring their elders’ 
pronouncements and setting their own pecking order. Such 
arrangements are usually based on questions of strength or 
numbers of adherents; Brujah tend to move in packs and 
follow charismatic leaders. 


to childe and whatever else comes to mind. Most are impro- 
vised from city to city, as the Brujah figure it’s the meaning of 
what they're doing that’s really important. Besides, it’s not as 
ifthe Iconoclasts and the Idealists could agree todo anything 
in unison in any case. Instead, customs among the Brujah are 
more a matter of aligning along the clan’s primary axis of 
sentiment and acting in accordance with it. 

Brujah gatherings, called Rants, are not regularly scheduled. 
Instead, they justhappen when somethingelse interestingdoe 
concerts, exhibitions, festivals, conferencesandsoon—andoften 
the mortals responsible for triggering the Rant get drafted into it 
aswell. Rantsare essentially open to members of any clan, though 
any Tremere who attends sin fora rough time. The Brujah make 
no secret of their distaste for the Warlocks, and delight in 
introducing Tremere spies tonewandexcitingdefinitionsof pain. 


MALKAVIAN 


Kooks. Fools. Madmen. Such are the descriptions the 
other clans have for the childer of Malkav, who frankly don’t 
giveadamn whatanyone else thinks of them. The Malkavians 
are insane, but not in the way that others imagine. Each 
Malkavian sees the world through her own cracked lens of 
perception, a highly personal distortion that outsidersdismiss 
as mere insanity. But that distortion is the key to enlighten- 
ment, the Malkavians insist — at least those philosophically 
inclined — and often the Lunatics seem to know more about 
what's really gaing on then. their so-called sane brethren. 

What exactly the Malkavians are doing in the Camarilla is 
a subject of some debate. While the clan’s allegiance to the sect 
has never wavered, it is nevertheless true that the sect’s interests 
only seem to intersect with the clan’s peripherally. Asa result, the 
Malkavians view the Camarilla with a sort of bemused affection, 
while their counterparts in other clans can't help feeling vague 
and disquieting sxpicion sbour the Donaties real motives, 


Tein Tracers oF Booo:Tre Crans 


37 


INSANITY 
It isa common misconception among the other clans to 
y little prank- 
sters who, in the end, are harmless. Nothing could be further 


regard the Malkavians as cute or childlike, wa 


from the truth. Malkay’s childer sport a wide range of dysfunc- 
tions, ranging from relatively mild cases of regression to 
full-blown psychoses and homicidal manias, but as a rule they 
arenotcute. A Malkavian isfarmore likely tobe totinga much 
used straight razor than he is to carry a teddy bear; bloody rags 
are infinitely more common than bunny slippers. While there 
are some Malkavians who do regress to childish behavior, they 
dosowithall thestrengthsand powers ofa full-grown vampire. 
Tantrums thrown with the weight of Dementation ora frenzy 
behind them should not be thought of asadorable, and neither 
should the Kindred throwing them. 


Recently, the entirety of the clan was somehow infected 
with the Dementation Discipline by the antitribu of the Sabbat 
The deed was done over the Malkavian Madness Network 
though even the Malkavians themselves seem at a loss to 
explain how exactly that happened. The new Discipline 
doesn’t seem to have affected clan members’ behavior over 


much, but with the Malkavians, one never knows. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENCE 


Malkavian strength and influence varies from city to 


city, dependingon the individual quirks of the local Malkavian 


population. In some places the Lunatics are nearly incapaci- 
tated by their manias, and thus are a non-factor in city 
politics. In others, the famed clan dementia is a non-issue or 
actually feeds an individual's drive to power. A power-hungry 
Malkavian with an obsessive personality can bea frightening 
thing for friends and foes alike 

Tonoone’ssurprise, the Malkaviansfind the mental health 
care system to be a hospitable environment; many set up little 
fiefdomsin managed care facilities. However, the Lunatiesaren’t 
limited to mental hospitals — it’s more a question of what an 
individual Malkavian is driven to experiment with. In some 
cases that'snothingatall, inothersit’sart that the Toreadorenvy 
or business dealings that give the Ventrue pause. A very few 
dabble in magic, and the thought of what those Malkavians 


might be up to gives many powerful Tremere nightmares 


ORGANIZATION 

Defining Malkavian organizationislike tryingtoempty the 
oceans with asieve. The task is simply pointless, as the Lunatics’ 
ways of arranging themselves mutate and change with blinding 
speed. The clan’s irregular meetings are open to all comers, 
primarily because the Malkavians don't care about keeping 
anyone out, but observers often returned chilled by what they 
saw. At times the Malkavians have mounted eerily accurate 
pastiches of Ventrue or Tremere clan gatherings; at others they 
mimic the Sabbat, or engage in behaviors utterly incomprehen 


sible to anyone not sharing the communal cup of madness 


CLAN PRESTIGE 

There’s no telling what might set a Malkavian above her 
fellows. Clan standing varies wildly from night to night, and 
the Malkavian everyone follows one night might be shunned 
the next. It only makes sense to the Malkavians, and not even 
to all of them, it seems. An approximate guideline is that 
anyone who does exceptional work to break down a shared 
perception ofreality (say, by gettingaprince tospeak in tongues 
or a keeper of Elysium to hang a finger painting) often wins 
kudos from her peers, but otherwise the Malkavian system of 
prestige ustseemstobeaparody of the otherclans’ approaches. 


There is no local, national or global organization of 
Malkavians. The clan simply is. Trying to force it into the 
framework of “normal” behavior,asthe Ventrueand othershave 
been trying todo forcenturies, isutterly fruitless. The Malkavians 
meet whenever they choose, do whatever they choose and revel 
in the thread of insanity which binds them all together. 


CONCERNS 

Do the Malkavians have unifying concerns? No one 
knows. There is speculation that the infection perpetrated by 
the antitribu has sparked at least some discussion among the 
Malkavians, but if anyone knows the truth, they're not 
talking. The more socially adept Malkavians routinely steer 
conversation away from clan matters, while the less func- 
tional ones don’t seem to be worth asking. 

If the clan can be said to have a core issue, it is the matter of 
enlightenment through new perception (or what the unenlight- 
ened mistakenly call insanity). By removing thescalesof “normal” 
behavior from their eyes, the Malkavians claim to be able to see 
true reality more clearly than ever before. Nota few clan members 
want to share that renewed vision with the rest of the Camarilla 
and then the world. Such vampires are almost universally feared, 
as their conversion efforts amount to driving their victims insane. 


Practices AND CUSTOMS 

The Malkavian custom that has the highest profile is the art 
of pranking, playing “jokes” on other Kindred so as to expand 
their perceptions. Ofcourse, these jokescan takeany formandare 
usually only funny to the Malkavian playing them; the targets 
find them to be anything from annoying to fatal. Malkavian 
pranking doesn’t involve whoopee cushions and buckets of water 
balanced on doors; rather, it is an inspired attempt to kick the 
crutch of consensual reality out from under other Kindred. Pranks 
can range from continually rearranging all of the furniture in a 
vampire’s haven tocareful use of Dementation tosiccinga hunter 
onan unfortunate target, anda vampire who becomes the subject 
ofa Malkavian’s interest rapidly finds his friends abandoning him 
for fear of being caught in the blast radius. 

Malkavian targets for the Embrace tend to be outside the 
mainstream of society. While not all are clinically insane 
before the Embrace, none are paragons of stability, and many 
justneed the horror of the Embrace to push them over the edge. 
Malkavian sires don’t seem to be particularly attentive to their 


childer, butsomehow the neonatesend up knowingeverything 
they need to know. Outsiders speculate that the Madness 
Network mustsomehow be involved, butsince outsidersblame 
the Malkavian Madness Network for everything since the 
murder of Abel, such theories are often yawned off. 


NOSFERATU 


Nosferatuarenotmonsters,at leastnotin thesensethatothers 
might think they are. Yes, they dwell in sewers and filth, have 
visages that send mortals screaming, and breed strange monstrosi- 
tiesas guardians for their underground domains, but the Nosferatu 
deal insecrets, notcamage. Hidingtheirfacesbehind illusions, they 
(or their servants) seek out any tidbit that appears worth having, 
then sell their spoils to those less observant (who would seem to be 
quite a few judging from their clientele). The Nosferatu's willing- 
ness to go places other Kindred disdain serves them well on many 
occasions, and their reputations as monstrosities ensures that the 
curious don’t attempt to tam the tables on them. 

Nosferatu often dwell in the city's sewers, but aren't re- 
stricted to them. After all, all the action (and the information 
that comes with it) are above ground. The sewers are merely a 
convenient and concealed mea: essing the world above, 
andanexcellentplace to hide what's been found. Most Nosferatu 
turn the sewers around their havens into deathtraps, and the 
older the vampire, the more complicated and intricate the traps. 
Nosferatu are very fond of their privacy, and intruders had best 
be prepared to pay the peice oftreepaning, 

What the Nosferatu ultimately deal in is information. 
Often the coin of exchange is more information, which just 
makes the clan richer. The Nosferatu aren’t afraid to use their 
knowledge, either, much to the chagrin of other Kindred who 
have found themselves humiliated, blackmailed or even 
killed after letting the wrong word fall into Nosferatu hands. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENCE 

It is rare for a Sewer Rat to hold a position in city 
government. Other Kindred are uncomfortable with having a 
smelly, repulsive monstrosity ina position of authority, and find 
ways to keep the Nosferatu out of power. Occasionally a prince 
tosses a position to the clan, either to demonstrate how open- 
mindedheisorinanattempttosecure the Nosferatu'sfriendship, 
but most just play it safe and exclude the clan from power as 
much as possible. A Nosferatu prince is almost unheard of. In 
truth, the Nosferatu don’t seem to care much. Time spent 
attending to the duties of an office is time not spent gathering 
information and putting that information to use. 

As information-brokers without peer, however, the 
Nosferatu can easily make up for any loss of “temporal” power. 
Vast webs of shared information result in being able to acquire 
dirt on just about anyone, and the Nosferatu make certain 
that everyone knows it. Asa result, other clans wanting what 
the Nosferatu have are forced to come and deal, and the Sewer 
Rats drive a hard bargain. Favors owed and gossip shared 
results in a remarkable amount of influence for the clan, 
which is valid currency above and below ground. 


Tun Tracers oF Biooo:Tre Crans 


39 


ORGANIZATION 


vot non-existent 
feratu, called Broods, meet on a 

to swap information. It’s common 
for Brood: 


y send representatives to one another, either as 


delegates at meetings or to carry certain precious pieces of news 


too valuable to trust to letters or email. Such exchanges help 


disseminate information across the 
Meetiny 


sorts of jokes about parasitism), which operate on no set 


lan with lightning speed 
s of Broods are called Hostings (which leads to all 
schedule. Instead, a Hosting happens when a Nosferatu decides 
thata Hosting needs to happen. The self-proclaimed host of the 
Hosting must arrange 


but bey 


1 meeting space and accommodations, 
sare remarkably informal. Nosferatu 


treat each other with a great dea’ 


ithat, the meetin, 
of respect; the shared horror 


of their appearance does much to promote clan unity 


In more recent ye Nosferatu have invested heavily in 
the SchreckNET, wir Brood in cyberspace andallowing 


eckNET is 


upward 


forfasterexchangesofdat: wintercontinen: 


tal, and it ercent of al 


Nosferan ithe next three 


Concerns 

The Nosf too much not to be concerned. They 
know why the Gangrel left the Camarilla, entirely too much of 
what goes on between Malkavians, and what’s really going on 
in the corridors of Ventrue power. The Nosferatu are less than 


ut the Camarilla’s future, and have debated lea 


themselves at times. If there’s a problem with the 
Camarilla, the Nosferatu know about it and are debating the 
matter worriedly 

others are 


rding to clan lore, the Nicktuku 
are the clan founder's other children, so monstrously twisted as 


One concern that the Nosferatu have that nc 
privy to is the Nicktuku. Acc« 


to make the Nosferatu look normal by comparison. Enor 
sities hunt 
s of the 


and an alarming 


mously powerful and utterly hateful, these monst 
their less deformed brethren across the globe. Repor 
Nicktuku have increased in recent years, 
numberof Nosferatu burrows have gone silentas well. Alarmist 
clan members are taking thi 


Nicktukuare on the move 


intelligence as a sign that the 


nd as such they are readying their 


defenses for what they perceive as the final assault 


Practicesann Customs 
There are few practicescommon te eratuthathave 

become known to others. One of t ectacular and 

fearsome (which isperhaps wh iletnewsofit leak) 


is the custom ating breeding px anufacture 
guardian ghouls. Suct 

with th tae. Th ilts are liter 
led animal: 


] defenses. Nosfe 


and subterranean plants, creating gardens worthy of the 


st apothecaries — or the deadliest poisoners 


CLAN PRESTIGE 

Standing among the Nosferatu is based on utility and 
merit. Those who do exceptional work for the clan or who 
uncover particularly juicy tidbits of information (that can be 
later put to use; there’s not much use for theoretical knowledge 
down in the storm drains) get acclaim. Furthermore, since the 
Nosferatu are in continuous communication, a well-regarded 
vampire’s good press gets spread far and wide. Of course, the 
opposite is also true. A Nosferatu who fumbles an information 
exchange, gets a burrow violated or assaulted or who passes on 
false information to the rest of the clan finds his name turned 
to mud across the entire ShreckNET in a matter of hours. 


In the end, all Nosferatu custom among each other breaks 
down to respect and politeness. The Nosferatu seem genuinely 
to respect one another and their elders (the Sewer Rats are the 
only vampires who don't regularly grumble about what evil deeds 
their elders are really up to), and that makes their dealings fluid, 
easy and fast. What matters to the Nosferatu is not the order of 
precedence, but rather actually getting things done, and their 
dearth of formalized customs reflects this desire. 


There is one hobby which the Nosferatu seem to enjoy, 
and that’s pushing the other Kindred. Every Nosferatu knows 
that the other clans prefer to deal with themas little as possible, 
and that they only do so when under great duress. Conse- 
quently, the Nosferatu take great pains to play up the worst 
aspects of their existence when the other clans come calling, 
testing to see just how far their prospective clients are willing 
to go. When the Toreador are willing to descend into the 
sewers, or the Ventrue to meet in a soup kitchen, not only do 
the Nosferatu get ghoulish pleasure out of seeing their visitors 
so discomfited, but the entire meeting becomes a gauge of 


exactly how desperate for help the high and mighty are. 


TOREADOR 


To the Toreador, or at least to any worthy of the name, 
beauty is as important as blood. The ultimate aesthetes, these 


Kindred are devoted to the exploration, creation and preser- 
vation of art in all its forms, whether that art wants to be 
preserved or not. Easily transfixed by an image of beauty, the 
Toreador can also be coldly vicious in destroying what 
displeases them. Andas the same creation —or mortal— can 
please and displease equal numbers of Toreador, dealing with 
this clan at all can be a dangerous thing. 


Contrary to their image as fops and poseurs, the Torea- 
dor are among the most effective manipulators the Camarilla 
possesses. Masters of intrigue for its own sake (just another art 
form to some Toreador), these Kindred can give words a 
sharper edge than a Gangrel’s claws. The superhuman senses 
that let a Toreador bask in the presence of a Van Gogh also 
give her a clue as to her enemies’ moods and anticipated 
actions. As for the study of art, an immortal sculptor’s 
knowledge of anatomy can be applied with equal facility toa 
slab of marble or an opponent's throat. 


Call it expression, call it art or call it beauty, the Toreador 
areaftersomething that noother clan is. Excellence andartistry 
in all things call to the Toreador (those deserving of the 
Embrace, inany case), and itis the quest toachieve and preserve 
that sort of achievement that drives the clan. With all eternity 
before them, the Toreador have all the time they need to seek 
perfection. They just don’t always seek it in ways or places that 
the other Kindred expect. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENCE 

Apart from the Ventrue, no other clan has so thoroughly 
adapted to the Camarillaashave the Toreador. Ifthe Ventrue are 
the sect’s backbone, the Toreador are its heart. Asa result, there 
are more than a fair share of Toreador princes, sheriffs, seneschals 
andthe like. Even ifacity’s prince isof another clan, oddsare good 
that there’s a Toreador at his elbow advising him. The field of 
politics isas mucha canvas as anything else for the Toreador, and 


many clan members have gotten very skilled in the medium. 


Oddly enough, fewer keepers of Elysium than one might 
expect hail from Toreador ranks. Popular theory holds that 
this is because too many Toreador keepers were entranced by 


the exhibits assorted Elysiums held to do their jobs properly; 
the Toreador refuse to dignify this rumor with a response and 
instead flock to join the ranks of the harpies. 

It is through the harpies that the Toreador truly exercise 
their clout. The final arbiters of status in a city, the harpies can 
make or break a vampire’s reputation ina matter of seconds. They 
can drive him toacts of desperation to reclaim his good name, or 
exalt him to dizzying heights on the basis ofa single deed. Princes 
can be brought low or created through the harpies’ efforts, and as 
much as other Kindred might want to discount the Toreador’s 
influence, there is too much evidence of their power to allow it. 


ORGANIZATION 

Toreador organization isa collection of free-floating cliques 
and artists’ collectives. Like so many of the other clans, the 
Toreador have no formal international organization. Instead, 
individual Kindred drift from group to group, which can be as 
formal or informal as the temperaments of their members de- 
mand. Deference is showed to Toreador of demonstrable age, 
knowledge or talent, but for every neonate eager to pay homage 


toan elder whose work he admires, there’s a former exotic dancer 
claimingthat hisphysical beauty makeshimawalking work ofart. 
Such schisms break the clan down into two rough groups: the 
Artistes and the Poseurs. In truth neither faction is formalized 
enough to have a name; these are just the insults that each side 
flings at the others. Artistes are the truly creative among the 
Toreador, the ones who produce works of true inspiration and 
beauty. Their oppositenumbersare those whoare. ..lesstalented. 
The ranks of the Poseurs include critics, agents, substandard 
creators who were Embraced through lapses in judgment and 
those who claim their lifestyles or their anatomies make them 
worksofart incarnate. There’sno love lost between the tworough 
factions, anda great deal of time and energy gets devoted to petty 
squabbles for supremacy on the local level. 


THN Tracers oF BLoon:The Crans 


41 


CONCERNS 

Most of the clan’s concerns are internal. The schism 
between talents and no-talents, the debates over what makes 
art, the endless urge to dabble in the mortal world to nurture art 
and creativity — all of these enfold the Toreador in endless 
debate. The concerns of the Camarilla are merely political and 
transient, you see, while the Toreador concern themselves 
with eternal verities and questions. 

On the other hand, that’s not to say that all Toreador deal 
strictly with the ethereal. Prime breeding grounds for culture 
on the East and West Coasts are being swamped, denying the 
Toreador access to those pools of talent. The Tremere seem to 
be making a play for supremacy in the sect, and should they 
dethrone the Ventrue, it seems likely they will be far less 
generous patrons of the arts than the Blue Bloods. 


DRACTICESAND CUSTOMS 

Of utmost importance to the Toreador is the apprecia- 
tion of art and beauty. They do this in a variety of fashions: 
patronizing mortal and immortal artists, purchasing works of 
art, instigating new artistic movements, acting as “muses” to 
mortals and so on. However, Toreador patronage can rapidly 
turn sour; a promising artist who doesn’t live up to expecta 


tions may find his patron fatally disappointed. Even less lucky 


Ni ) N i are those throwaways the Toreador let live; they are sen 
i} 


\ 
jh 


tenced to a lifetime of broken dreams and desperate longing 
for what was shown to them once, then snatched away 

Unlike theotherclans, the Toreador love gathering. There's 
in informal clan meeting practically every week (if not every 
night), when the Toreador get together to swap gossip, compare 
trendsand generally bask in one another's presences. Gatherings 
of thissortare called Affairs of the Clan, and attendance isstrictly 
voluntary. However, since these Affairs are vital for gaining 
prestige within the clan, they're always heavily attended. 

The clan (local groupings are called Guilds, much to the 
amusement of those who actually remember what artisans 
guilds were like) also has a formal meeting each month on the 
night of the full moon. Such meetings are called Balls, and they 
are open to all Toreador. Outsiders can attend only by prior 
invitation; such invitations are highly sought-after, as the 
Toreador throw one hell of a party 

The Grand Ball is a once a year event set for Halloween 


a Ball put on collectively by several Guilds. The site for the 


P =i i R Grand Ball changes from year to year, and competition for the 
nels aei MAN SWS r 


A 
MATERN honor of hosting it is fierce. Most of the business discussed at 
SWSM=ESWEWeN) 

s ame WANEN 
CLAN PRESTIGE 

Toreador gain standing within the clan for creating or 
Ia - discovering works of art. Particularly successful Balls, ma- 

EEN e nee ; i El 
==" NE Ei nipulations of other vampires or cutting remarks at Elysium 
also win a Toreador points with her peers. Substandard 
discoveries or performances, embarrassing moments and 
Jemonstrated failures in social settings, however, can earn 

a Toreador her clan’s unrelenting and eternal scorn. 


Grand Balls is Toreador-specific and of utterly no interest to 
anyone outside of the clan. 

Once every 23 years (the significance of the number is still 
unknown) the Toreador gather for an event called Camivale, a 
week-long festival of the Toreador’s tue nature. Mortal and 
immortal artists attend, demonstrations of great beauty and sav- 
agery are given, everyone (who survives) has legendary stories to 
tell,and, attheend of the festivities, the mortal whom the Toreador 
acclaimas the greatestartist ofher generation receives the Embrace 
and much acclaim. The debate over just who receives that gift is 
subject to much politicking and intrigue, and more often than not 


a compromise candidate ends up serving as the selection. 


TREMERE 

Bom in stolen blood and awash in itever since, the Tremere 
are regarded with suspicion by their allies and hatred by their 
enemies. A siege mentality has prevailed within the clan of 
thaumaturges ever since the night Tremere and his associates 
crossed the barrier between life and unlife, and nothing the 
Tremere have seen since then has convinced them it’s time to let 
their g 


has grown steadily more insular and self-sufficient. Today, the 


ard down. Instead, as the centuries have passed the clan 


other clans know less about what the Tremere actually do than 
they ever have, and the Warlocks like it that way. 

Based out of their chantry in Vienna, the Tremere have 
always held to a process of slow expansion and consolidation. 
Once the Tremere acquire a chantry, they fortify and reinforce 


it before attempting to expand again. Each chantry isa minia 


ture replica (in function, if not form) of the home base in 
Vienna, with laboratories, libraries, residence quarters for Kin- 
dred and retainers and other materials necessary for 
thaumaturgical research. The effort expended in creating each 
chantry, therefore, ensures that the chantry is not given up 
easily nor casually invaded by outsiders. 

The Tremerearealsopastmastersat the game of prestation. 
The wide range of possibilities that the Thaumaturgy Disci- 
pline makes available to them means that they can render a 
great many favors to a great many vampires. Handing out a lot 
of favors means piling up a lot of favors owed, and the Tremere 


excel at using those debts to advance their aims. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENCE 
Strongest in central Europe, the Tremere rarely rise to the 


position of prince. That’s not because individual Warlocks are 


incapable of holding the position or have no ambition for it, 


but rather because a Tremere prince would have divided 
Asa result, 


many princes have Tremere advisors, or even scourges, but 


allegiance to city and clan. Clan always comes first 


duty to clan supersedes duty to city or even to sect 

The real power the Tremere have comes from the unified 
frontthey present. Takeon one Tremere,and you takeon themall 
That's not to say there's no bickering or backstabbing within the 
clan, butoncean external threat manifests, all ofthe Warlocks lock 
step. (Mind you, there are Tremere hoping that other clan mem- 
bersgetconveniently annihilated, but they won'tso much as think 
that loudly for fear of a reprimand.) 


Tue Cup 

It’s more than good indoctrination policies that keep 
the Tremere so unified. Each neonate, at the time of her 
creation, drinks achalice’s worth of the mixed blood of the 
Council of Seven. Grail imagery and similarities to the 
Sabbat Vaulderie aside, putting each new Tremere one 
step closer to being bound to the clan elders issimply good 
politics. Most neonates stay in line thereafter for fear of 
having the full bond enforced, while troublemakers are 
that much easier to Dominate or bond fully. Woe betide 
a Tremere who gets himself blood bound to someone 
outside the clan and is discovered, for by doing so he has 
destroyed his elders’ most effective leverage on him. If the 
error is uncovered, the bound Tremere can expect an 
unpleasant time, and the vampire he is bound to will 
probably be marked for death. 


ORGANIZATION 

Without a doubt, the Tremere are the most highly struc- 
tured of the clans. Arranged ina pyramidal hierarchy (Tremere 
himself at the top, the Council of Seven beneath him, each 
with control overa different geographic region, and soon), the 
Tremere all know their exact place in the order of things. Each 
Tremere can trace the path of power from where she stands up 
through her superiors to Tremere himself, and can take com- 
fort in having a well-established place. 

Underneath the Council of Seven (which is comprised of 
all fourth-generation Tremere) sits the Order of Pontifices, 
seven of whom are assigned to each Councilor. Each Pontifex 
has a domain to oversee; such domains have only the vaguest 
relation to actual geography, and frequently overlap. 

ach Pontifex has direct authority over a group of seven 
Lords (the aggregate is called the Order of Lords), each of 
whom oversees a smaller geographic region (a small country, 
for example, or a few particularly populous states). Each Lord 
also has seven Regents reporting to him, and each Regent has 
control over Tremere affairs at a particular chantry. 

Neonates receive, along with the Embrace, initiation as 
Apprentices of the First Circle. Asa young Tremere progresses 
in her studies, she ascends through the ranks to the title of 
Apprentice of the Seventh Circle. Such lofty “apprentices” 
help rule the chantry with the Regent; at any given time a 
chantry can boast a range of apprentices running from First 
Circle to Seventh. Interestingly enough, there are seven 
Circles of Mysteries for Regents, Lords and Pontifices as well; 
the Tremere never cease their studies, nor do they ever stop 
advancing in their knowledge of the Mysteries. 

The Tremere's strict formality of hierarchy begins with the 
Embrace and never letsup. Each Apprentice of the First Circle must 
meet with her Regent once a week, and along with thaumaturgical 
instruction she receives an indoctrination in Tremere organi: 
tional thought. Each vampire is part ofthe clanasawholeand serves 
a function in the clan asa whole; a single vampire who shirks her 
duty weakens the clan as a whole, and so on. It is impressed on 


CLAN PRESTIGE 

The Tremere grant prestige within the clan in slow, 
carefully measured doses. Following orders to successful conclu- 
sions, triumphs of thaumaturgical research, eliminations of the 
clan's enemies and efforts that advance the clan's agenda are all 
rewarded, albeit in small increments. Tremere who disobey 
orders, engage in failed experimentation or who weaken the 
clan drop in prestige dramatically. Considering the rigidly 
hierarchical nature of the Tremere and the intense competition 
for advancement within the clan structure, a single misstep can. 
set a Tremere’s ambitions hack literally centuries. 


neonates early that they are exactly where they are supposed to be 
for a reason, and that the good of the whole comes first. 

The Tremere do have a policy of rapid and multiple transfers 
of Kindred from chantry tochantry. This isdone to keep any single 
Regent from acquiring too strong a power base. The constant 
turnover breaks up groups that have grown too tightly knit, as well 
as making it easier for high-ranking Tremere to sneak spies into a 
given chantry. On the other hand, the constant scattering of 
Tremere now means that a Regent who won his apprentices’ 
loyalty can have agents in a dozen chantries across the globe. 


CONCERNS 

Extinction and power— those are the two concerns of Clan, 
Tremere. The Warlocks never have quite recovered from the 
terror of their first nights as Kindred and the horrific war waged 
against them by the Tzimisce. Kindred too young to remember 
the nights in the Carpathians are fed endless stories of the battles 
against Tzimisce war ghouls and the nights when every hand was 
against them. That fear has never gone away. The Tremere are 
still convinced — perhaps with good reason — that their 
enemies still wait, and simply seek an opportunity, a moment of 
relaxed vigilance before striking once again. The Tzimisce are 
the featured players in such paranoid fantasies, but the Ventrue, 
the Toreador and even the escaped Gargoyles also play roles. 

And what of the Salubri? Ever since Tremere’s 
diablerization of Saulot, his childer have been haunted by the 
fear of Salubri vengeance. Such fears are ludicrous, of course — 
the Salubri are a hated, hunted remnant, driven underground 
by relentless Tremere persecution and propaganda. Surely 
there is no way they could ever mount a threat. But the oldest 
of the Tremere remember the strange events that led the clan 
to abandon its Wallachian stronghold of Ceoris, and wonder. 


Practices AND Customs 

Thaumaturgy demands great attention to detail, and 
Tremere social practices mirror this. Position in the pyramid 
is of utmost importance at all times; proper deference to one’s 
superiors must be maintained. 


The Tremere follow a highly regimented meeting schedule. 
Just as every Apprentice of the First Circle meets with the local 
Regent once a week, each Regent meets with his peers and Lord 
onceayear. Above them, each Lord meets with her associatesand 
Pontifexonceevery three years, andthe Pontificesmeet with their 


Trt Guide 10 THE CAMARILA 


44 


peers and their superior once every seven years. (Note: Only the 
given Pontifices, Lords, Regents etc. under a single superior meet. 
Cross-pollination is strictly forbidden.) The Council of Seven 
meetsonceadecadein Vienna, andoccasionallyasaresultoferises 
at other times. However, such irregular meetings are extremely 
rare; the Tremere have a schedule and they like keeping to it, 
exactly. Variation invites chaos, chaos disrupts control, and the 
Tremere like having control very, very much. 

Beyond these organizational meetings, the Tremere gather 
frequently for mystical purposes. An entire chantry comes 
together for a Convocation every Tuesday, with each Convo- 
cation serving as equal parts rite and board meeting. 
Convocations are conducted telepathically, so as to frustrate 
any eavesdroppers. A city’s Tremere also host open meetings 
the third night of every third month; such meetings are open 
to outsiders, and are conducted via speech, not mindspeech. 

Finally, at the end of each October, the clan joins fortwo 
nights in a mystical communion. A sort of hive-mind is 
formed by a chant in which each Tremere takes part. Knowl- 
edge and wisdom can be exchanged (though deep probes of 
individual minds are impossible), and each Warlock is re- 
minded of his place in the greater whole. 


VENTRUE 


The Ventrue are the backbone of the Camarilla, the clan most 
firmly committed to the ideal of the sect. Perhaps this is because one 
of their own is given credit for first envisioning the Camarilla, 
perhaps it is because they honestly believe in the sect’s ultimate 
good, but the fact remains that the Ventrue are the clan whose 
identity is most firmly tied to the Camarilla’s. The Ventrue boast 
more princes than nyotherclan,andseem totake aspecial pleasure 
in organizing conclaves. Indeed, the Ventrue see participation in 
the Camarilla as a duty, and they are capable of going on at great 
lengths about it to other vampires whom they feel aren’t pulling 
their weight. Such Kindred usually retort with comments about the 
clan’s martyr complex, but the Ventrue take such slanders in stride. 
They know it is the lot of the noble to be unappreciated, 

Alwaysa clan of the aristocracy, the Ventrue these days are 
transitioning from Embracing the hereditary elite to enfolding 
the financial elite instead. The clan has always flocked to power, 
and in these modern nights the power is in the board room 
instead of the court. Asa result, the Ventrue have become firmly 
enmeshed in speculative markets, industry and other financial 
arenas. They are well-aware of the power money has, and 
through their multitudinous mortal pawns they use that power 
exceedingly well. None of the other Camarilla clans can match 
the Ventrue in this field; few even try anymore. 

The Ventrue doadmire breeding, and areamong the most 
urbane, sophisticated and formal of the Kindred. The clan has 
a plethora of traditions and customs, most of which are utterly 
nonsensical to other Kindred, but which the Ventrue follow 
doggedly. Young Ventrue who question the wisdom of doing 
such tend to have the lessons beaten into them by their sires, 
who value directed initiative rather than independence. 


Despite the guise of gentility the clan adopts, the Ventrue 
capacity for cruelty and rapacity is boundless. They may be 
polite, but they are nonetheless vampires — vampires at the top 
of the power pyramid of the Kindred, no less. Kindness and other 
admirable qualities had nothing to do with getting them there; 
tuthless efficiency, burning ambition and tireless dedication did. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENCE 

The Ventrue remain the most powerful clan in the 
Camarilla. Part of this derives from the fact that they are so 
much more intensely interested in the sect than their peers are, 
but part of it also derives from the drive to power that seems to 
be the clan’s unifying trait. In most Camarilla cities, the local 
power structure is riddled with Ventrue. Even those who don’t 
hold official titles have their fingers in some important mortal 
pie or other; stock exchanges, financial institutions, city hall 
and the like are common areas of Ventrue interest. 

One of the products of this Ventrue stranglehold on the 
local hierarchy isthat there isoften little room for young Ventrue 
toascend. They are kept in what amount to eternal apprentice- 
ships to undying masters, and many grow restive under the yoke. 
As a result, there is a curious dichotomy in Ventrue behavior 
patterns; normally the most conservative and urban of vampires, 
the Ventrue also have a habit of seeing their younger clanmates 
flock into recently opened territories (physical, such as a city 
retaken from the Sabbat, or financial, a la a new industry rising 
to prominence) in hopes of staking new claims. 


ORGANIZATION 

The Ventrue have an exceedingly formal clan organiza- 
tion, but that formality has a surprising degree of flexibility of 
response built into it. The leadership of the clan, sometimes 
referred to as the “Board of Directors,” has approximately 30 
members fromall over the globe, though the most important are 
in New York, London and Paris. Meetings of the Board are 
irregular but attendance is nighmandatory; with the power that 
the directors have at their command there's little excuse for not 
being able to jet to a convocation of the Board from anywhere. 

Less exalted Ventrue make due with a clan structure that 
seems equal part corporate entity and club. Each city with a 
Ventrue population hosts a clan headquarters, called a Board 
and frequently run out of eithera gentlemen's club or expensive 
office space. The Board also doubles as a corporation, and is the 
tool which the Ventrue exercise much of their financial control 
on the local level. 

One of the Ventrue's self-described strengths is the fact 
that everyone knows his place within the clan; all roles and 
chains of command are clearly and formally demarcated. 
Progress through the ranks is slow for younger Ventrue except 
in unusual circumstances; too much ambition or initiative is 
frowned upon by the clan elders. 


CONCERNS 

The Ventrue’s primary concern is the Camarilla, namely, 
how tokeep it going in the wake of the defection by the Gangrel. 
While the Ventrue never had much use for the Gangrel, 


Tun Tracers oF Biooo:THe Crans 


45 


CLAN PRESTIGE 

Clan prestige is acquired by the Ventrue as a by- 
product of success. Successful acquisitions, business 
maneuvers, political coups or other activities that benefit 
the clan or the sect are rewarded with prestige, though it is 
common practice for as many Ventrue as possible to try to 
grab some of the credit for any activity that goes well 
Activities that circumvent the bounds of normal clan 
behavior are regarded cautiously; if they succeed without 
denting the fortunes of other Ventrue, the instigators are 
lavishly rewarded, but if they fail or hurt the clan, the 
punishment is severe. Ventrue who don’t behave them- 
selves properly also risk losing standing in the clan, as do 
theirsires and childer. Blood and breeding will tell, afterall 


common opinion held that they were extremely useful in 


defending against the Sabbat. With them gone, the Camarilla 
stands weakened, and the Ventrue feel they must shoulder even 
more of the burden of supporting the sect. There is also worry 
over the successful Sabbat incursions on the east coast of North 
America, which the clan is trying to spread to the rest of the sect 

Within the Camarilla, the clan's greatest concern is the 
growing power of the Tremere, who seem poised within a few 
short decades to attempt to wrest command of the sect from 
the Ventrue. There’s also the usual fretting about increasing 
anarch activity, but most Ventrue tune this out as white 
noise. They've heard it all before, seen it come to naught and 


have no interest in hearing it now 


PRactices AND CUSTOMS 

The formal practices of the Ventrue are too numerous (and in 
many cases, too nitpicky) to go into here; suffice it to say that they 
haveagreatmany. There are customs for who gets todrink first, who 
speaks in which order at the Board, what sorts of clubs (gentlemen’s 


only; if there are none such, then often the alumni clubs of 


prestigious universities are chosen as substitutes) can be used to 


house the Board, parties tocelebrate Embrace datesand soon. Every 
move is circumscribed by tradition and precedent; innovation is 
smiled upon only so long as it doesn’t disrupt existing practice. 

The most essential custom of the Ventrue, however, is 
that of assistance. In all things, the clan comes first, and any 
Ventrue can come to the Board or to a clanmate for assis- 
tance. By long tradition, those Ventrue thus petitioned are 
obligated to come to their clanmate’s aid, regardless of 
personal risk or preference. A Ventrue who fails in this 
obligation loses face within the clan, and can expect no help 
from any of his clanmates should he request it 

When it comes to the Embrace, the Ventrue are exceed 
ingly selective. Only the creme de la creme will do for the 
Blue Bloods, the best of the mortal best in business, politics, 
the military and so on. Ventrue take care to instruct their 
childer in the ways of the Camarilla, seeing as someday it will 
be those neonates’ duty to uphold the sect. Ventrue never 


really step too far away from their childer unless compelled by 


THe Mortar WORLD 

Of the Ventrue’s greatest strengths is the depth of their 
interaction with the mortal world. They dabble in mortal 
political and financial institutions as reflexively as mortals 
breathe, and asa result have more influenceamong the living 
thandoany of the otherclans. Whiledoingsuch occasionally 
puts the Masquerade at risk, it also gives the clan admirable 
resources. The Ventrue also have the most skilled, most 
highly placed and in general the most numerous ghouls of all 
the clans, and their expertise at using the mortal tools is one 
of the keys to the sect’s continued survival. 

Within the clan itself, there is growing resentment 
against a perceived “old boys’ network” of elders whom 
younger Ventrue see as denying them opportunities for 
advancement. The younger Ventrue also feel that the 
clan’s structure is inefficient, while the elders shake their 
heads over the impetuousness of youth and claim that 
their experience gives them the mandate to keep things 
just as they are. 


society or distance; the strong bonds between sire and child 
are part of what helps unify the clan. 

"The Veritroe mest on the first Tuesday of every month at 
the Board; attendance is mandatory, and chose playing hooky 
find themselves fetched by the retainers of the “Chairman” (the 
local elder and head of the board, usually also a member of the 
primogen council). The meetings are called Directorate Assem- 
blies, though older Ventrue insist on calling them by oldernames 
in French, Latin and Greek. Directorate Assemblies resemble 
nothing so much as mortal board meetings, with financial and 
political data providing the bulk of the conversation. The 
meetings are also used to regulate clan standing, with “promo- 
tions” and “demotions” coming in the form of public praise or 
scorn from the Chairman or membership on select committees. 


... AND ONE 


GANGREL 
The Gangrel, a: 
Camarilla. That is not tosay that every single Gangrel has turned 
in hermembership card and turned her back on the organization 
as a whole, as there are plenty of Gangrel who consider them- 
selves part of the sect. Rather, it is the clan as a whole that has 
withdrawn its support from the governing body, abandoning its 
right to have equal say and equal power in the sect’s councils. 
The clan’s elders attach no stigma to those individuals who 
choose to remain with the Camarilla— it’s the individual’s right 
to choose, after all. However, one must now make the distinc- 
tion between saying that there are Gangrel of the Camarilla 
(true) and that the Gangrel are of the Camarilla (false). 
Those Gangrel who have remained with the sect occupy 
a slightly reduced place in the sect’s hierarchy. Without the 
presence of a clan justicar to defend Gangrel interests, mem- 


a clan, have formally seceded from the 


bers of other clans (particularly the Ventrue and Brujah) are 
making subtle encroachments on Gangrel territories and 
domains. The end result of this process may be to drive the 
remaining Camarilla Gangrel off as well, but long-term 
planning isn’t every Kindred’s strong suit. 

Even Camarilla Gangrel are generally taciturn and soli- 
tary by nature, albeit perhaps less so than their newly 
non-affiliated brethren. It is rare for a Gangrel to take much 
interest in a city’s government; most prefer moving from place 
to place, or develop a concern for a specific part of a city’s 
landscape (az00, a central park system, an arboretum etc.) and 
makea crusade out of protecting that one spot. Anything that 
affects a Gangrel’s chosen territory is fought tooth and nail, 
while the rest of the city can generally go hang. 

Contrary to popular belief, Gangee! don'ene 
running carefree through the woods or spending time with 
werewolves, as in most cases Lupines regard Gangrel as being just 

badas the rest of the bloodsucking lot. Rumors of cooperation 
between the two groups are greatly exaggerated, to say the | 
While the vast majority of Gangrel do prefer to get the hell out 
of the cities when they can, they take to the countryside with an 
eye to self-preservation rather than bucolic splendor. 


sarily enjoy 


ist. 


STRENGTH AND INFLUENC 

While stronger than the splinter groups within the 
Camarilla, such as the Samedi or Lasombra antitribu, sectarian 
Gangrel now lag well behind the six major clans in strength. In 
any given city or region, there are likely to be enough Gangrel 
to keep anyone from pushing the clan around too much, but 
when it comes to overall policy decisions, the Gangrel just 
don’t have the muscle anymore. Having given up representa- 
tion on the Inner Council and the right to present a justicar, 
the Gangrel are now without voice at the highest levels of 
power, and are feeling the consequences ofthat change nightly. 

In terms of geography, the Gangrel form a sort of perim- 
eter on Camarilla territory. They prefer small cities or very 
large ones (which usually house extensive parks, zoological 
gardens and so on); mid-range urban environments don’t do 
much to tickle the Gangrel fancy. 


ORGANIZATION 

The Gangrel who remain with the Camarilla are not so 
much organized as they are stable. An unofficial hierarchy of 
respect has emerged among the stragglers, who prefer to keep 
out of sect business as much as possible. If two Gangrel come 
into conflict in a situation where one does not have clear-cut 
dominance over the other, the result is a bloody brawl. Such 
impromptu duels rarely result in fatalities, but there is consid- 
erable loss of face involved for the loser. Some Gangrel would 
seem almost to prefer dying to admitting defeat. Oflate, certain 
princes have encouraged contentious Gangrel in their do- 
mains to settle matters in less violent fashion, or to agree to 
limits to the carnage, but the notion hasn't taken hold. 

In the meanwhile, Gangrel exist as floaters and neo- 
independents, shunning the need for organization above the 


Thin Tracers oF BLoon:Tre Crans 


41 


A 


local level. Gangrel gatherings are called by whoever sees a 

needforone; the informal prestige of the individualmakingthe 

invitation determines how many guests are likely to attend. 
A Gangrel prince is an extremely rare thing; odds are 


that any such vampire has been forced into her position by 


circumstance rather than ambition. If a Gangrel takes a 
position within a city government, it’s most likely to be one 
without rigid responsibilities, such as sheriff. A higher than 
expected number of Gangrel take up the mantle of archon, 


possibly because the job’s nomadic nature and mandate to 
circumvent politics appeal to Gangrel sensibilities. 


CONCERNS 

The primary concer that most Camarilla Gangrel have, 
unsurprisingly, is the worry that the whole thing is going to come 
crashing downany nightnow. While the clanasa whole might not 
have had any problems with Gangrel remaining behind with the 
sect, there were any number of hard words and harder blows 
between individual clan members over the issue. Ifthe whole thing 
collapses, the survivors are going to have a serious loss of prestige 
within the clan. Throw in other concerns like, say, survival, and 
suddenly the durability of the Camarilla becomes of more than 
academic interest to even the seemingly apathetic Gangrel 

A lesser problem, but still an important one, is the way in 
which the post-schism Gangrel are being squeezed by their 
sectmates. With territory growing more and more scarce as broods 
of childer grow larger and larger, it is often the Gangrel who find 
themselves being shoved aside to make room for favored neonates 
descended from primogen members or those whom elders owed 
favors. The situation has not yet reached a boiling point, but 
sooner or later someone's going to start comparing notesand then 


the shit is likely to hit the fan in a hurry 


Practices ann Customs 

While not formal in the sense that a Ventrue or Torea- 
dor would understand, Gangrel customs have a strict 
ritualization to them that the Tremere would be hard-pressed 
to emulate. Much of what has survived as modern Gangrel 
culture had come from the clan’s concentration in Scandinavia 
during the past two millennia. Gatherings of Gangrel are 
called althings (or things, if they're on a smaller scale), and the 
recounting of deeds and tales that occurs at such gatherings 
is reminiscent of the Viking brag. Althings occur on the 
equinoxes, while May 8th often hosts smaller gatherings. 


Precedence at a gathering of Gangrel is determined by a 
series of individual contests of dominance. Most such chal- 
lenges are just staredowns, but a few graduate to brawl status. 


Such combats are vicious but rarely fatal; there aren’t enough 


CLAN Prestict 

Gangrel gain prestige from one another through the 
allthings, and by having word of their deeds and actions spread 
by other Gangrel. Prestige bestowed by members of other clans 
is generally worthless to the Gangrel, unless the outsider in 


question has done something to eam Gangrel respect 


The Gume To THe Camata 


48 


Gangrel for them to go around killing each other at meetings. 
Such duels for primacy occur whenever Gangrel meet on their 
own and for the first time, even if it’s just two clanmates coming 
deross eachother inthe woods. Once peeceddence is eorablished, 
the pecking order is fixed and there's no need to repeat the 
process every time the same Gangrel meet. The only exceptions 


come when someone on the losing end of a prior encounter 
decideshe’sin line fora promotion, and triesagain. The winners 
of such combats gain prestige within the clan, while the losers 
are reduced in standing (and usually beaten to a pulp as well), 
which does keep the number of frivolous challenges down. 

Once precedence has been established, the leader begins 
the recitation of names and deeds, plus whatever other informa- 
tion she feels needs to be passed along. If there’s no discussion, 
the floor is then yielded to the second in command, and so on. 
All in attendance, regardless of whether it’s a full allthing or just 
twoclan members, are expected to remember what they are told, 
and to passon the important and particularly interesting tales to 
other Gangrel not in attendance. Thus heroes are made of some 
Gangrel and laughingstocks of others, but the news that needs 
to travel somehow gets spread. 

Gangrel rarely reveal themselvesto theirprogeny atthe time 
of the Embrace. Instead, they watch prospective childer for an 
extended period of time before dooming another mortal to 
vampiric existence, then strike without waming. The new childe 
isabandoned to hisown devices (though thesire and usually afew 
other Gangrel keep an eye on him) and must learn to survive on 
his own. If he does so well enough, eventually his sire will come 
forward and induct him into the ways of the clan. If not, 
incompetent neonates tend to take care of themselves in fatal 
fashion. A site whose neonate fails can suffer a loss of prestige, 
depending upon how fast and how emphatic the failure was. 


THe DRoupd Few 


The Camarilla, by its own definition, speaks for and in- 
cludes all Cainites. Needless to say, this claim is either ignored 


THe Rom CONNECTION 

rdless of sect affiliation, Gangrel hold the mortal 
Rom (colloquially known as “Gypsies”) in particular re- 
gard. Interfering with a Rom kumpania, particularly one a 
Gangrel may have some blood relation to, isa sure-fire way 
to get the local Gangrel very angry very quickly. Gangrel 
normally shun human company as much as possible, but it 
is not too unusual to find a Gangrel moving in and out of 
a Rom camp, or even sharing time by the fire and compan- 
ionship with the members of the kumpania. 

On the other hand, the Ravnos, disparagingly referred 
to as “Gypsies” by the other clans, have the Gangrel’s 
undyingenmity. The various explanationsas for why exactly 
this is the case range from a Gangrel dislike of the Ravnos’ 
playing to stereotype to something to do with the clans’ 
Antediluvians (or Antediluvian, if you believe the tales) 


or mocked by the vampires who comprise the Sabbat and the 
independent clans. More importantly, the assessment is derided 
by the organizations that stand outside or in opposition to the 
Camarilla and who, in some part, define themselves by the fact 
that they’renot partofit. Thewholesetup is 
forall concemed: The Camarilla clings to its supposed catholic- 
ity as justification for its existence, while the outsiders twit the 


convenientfiction 


presumption involved in making such a claim 
In other words, the arrangement works nicely for all of the 
groupsinvolved. But what of the individuals who fall between the 
cracks, vampires whose allegiances would seem to lie elsewhere 
but who, for one reason or another, have gathered under the 
Camarilla’s banner. From the haughty Lasombra antitribu to the 
ingly fascinating Samedi, these stragglers and defectors 
occupy a place in Camarilla society that is, at best, ambiguous. 
While the very charter of the Camarilla mandates that these 
individual vampires be granted the same treatment as any other 
Kindred, their origins inevitably provide cause for (sometimes 
justifiable) suspicion and ill treatment. As a result, defectors to 
the Camarilla side are not always greeted warmly, which makes 
it that much more difficult to convince other members of the 
“opposition” to cross the fence 
This is not to say that every Camarilla vampire whose 
blood doesn’t trace back to one of the organization’s original 
clans is automatically treated poorly — more than a few have 
risen in power andstatus, tothe point where they are feared and 
respected throughout the Camarilla. No one dares tweak the 
estimable Montano, for example, about his sire. The vast 
majority of the so-called “clanless,” however, find themselves 
on the fringes and in between the cracks of night-to-night 
Camarilla society. No one inside the Camarilla quite knows 
what to do with them and, cast free from their former associa- 
tions, they aren't exactly sure what to do with the Camarilla. 


Or, for that matter, with themselves. 


FOLLOWERS OF SET 

To say that the Setites of the Camarilla are regarded as odd is 
to indulge in gross understatement. Nevertheless, the handful of 
Serpents who did heed the initial call of the Camarilla (there have 
been precious few tocome oversince) seem entirely sincere in their 
attachment to the sect. Even more bizarre is the fact that the 
unaffiliated Followers of Set don't seem to be taking any particular 
steps to wipe out these few aberrations. (The Serpents of the Light 
are another matter, but then again, the Sabbat always is.) 

Inreality, the motivation behind the trickle of Camarilla 
Setites is a simple one. Say what you like about it, but the 
Camarilla is the most efficient thing the Cainite race has ever 
put together. It has managed, with very few slips, to conceal 
the presence of vampires from the masses of humanity de: 
the best efforts of its enemies to destroy it, and to keep some 
vague semblance of order over a large portion of the map. 


pite 


Now what, ask the Camarilla Setites of themselves, if that 
organization and occasional efficiency could be tured totheirends? 

Ies disturbing possibility, which is why these Serpents 
p a very low profile. 


ke: 


Tan Traceres of BLooo:The Crans 


49 


* Dealings With Others 

Camarilla Setites cluster themselves on the fringes of 
Elysium; the usual crowd there is more likely to discuss matters 
and less likely to haul out the old “A Setite is a Setite” 
rationalization before opening fire. Furthermore, those Kin- 
dred with passions for art and diplomacy are likely to have 
passions for other things, things that the Serpents can provide 
Still, the Setites of the Camarilla take great care to avoid 
behavior that is too stereotypical, for the simple reason that 
none of them want ro be mistaken in a dark alley — or a well- 
lit board room — for a non-sectarian member of the clan. 

Followers of Set who have joined the Camarilla have not 
abandoned their clan’s ultimate goal, nor are they necessarily 
regarded as traitors by their clanmates. The true glory of Set will 
be made manifest in the subversion or destruction of all of the 
other clans, but nowhere is written tharall of the otherclansnee 
to be humbled at the same time. Using the Camarilla to humble 
the Sabbat, then the independents to humble the Camarill 
makes perfect sense from the Setite perspective. Inthe meantime, 
Camarilla Setites do their utmost for the sect as a method of 


working toward that final aspiration. 


Oddly enough, it is the Toreador and the Brujah that 
Camiarilla Setites deal with most frequently, and whom they 
turn to for protection in the face of adversity from other 
Camarilla Kindred. Both clans are prey to strong passions and 
desires of the sorts that the Setites can assuage, while Nosferatu, 
Tremere and Ventrue tend to be cautious in their dealings 
with any Setites, regardless of sect. As a rule, Camarilla 
Setites avoid Malkavians whenever possible, reportedly out 
of the fear that the Lunatics can see right through their 
schemes, More rational Kindred say that it’s because the 
Setites just don't have anything that Malkavians actually 
want, but to date, it’s all hearsay and speculation. 

© Roleplaying 

Playing a Setite bound by the laws of the Camarilla takes 
even more delicacy and subtlety than portraying an unfettered 
member of the clan. Camarilla Setites take great pains to put 
their sectmates at case — they voluntarily tone down the 
serpent imagery and decor, just to accentuate the putative 
distance between themselves and the “normal” members of the 
clan. Some sect-aligned Setites go so far as to eschew “tradi- 
tional” Setite activities like dabbling in a city's drug trade, 
though they're more likely to make a logical case as to how their 
connections make them best suited to run the market to the 
Camarilla’s benefit. How much of a charade the performance 
actually is depends on the individual Serpent, butall Camarilla 
Setites recognize the necessity of earning their sectmates’ trust 
by any means possible 

In social situations, Camarilla Setites are unfailingly po- 
lite and proper, with every action calculated to make those who 
would rail against them for their origins look bad, boorish and 
untrustworthy. That’s not to say that Camarilla Setites are 
ineffectual or limited, but rather that they get their hands dirty 


in private. A Setitestrolling into Elysium may have under-the- 


Tue GUIDE To THe CAMARILLA 


50 


table deals going with half the Toreador in attendance, but 
won't hint at any of them in public. Appearances must be 
preserved, after all — appearances and a reputation for discre- 
tion, so that future deals aren’t jeopardized. 


DAUGHTERS OF CACOPHONY 

It is only the modern nights that the Daughters of Ca- 
cophony have truly earned their name, culling the men, castrati 
and boys from their ranks for reasons unknown. The remaining 
Daughters have no inclination to talk about the topic, and 
instead seem to be wholly enthralled by the process of creating 
and performing music. Politi 
nothing to these Kindred. Only music, of all the arts, holds any 
attraction for them at all. 

Camarilla Daughters seem to belong to the sect out of 
convenience, not conviction. If a city is Camarilla, then the 
local Daughters abide by Camarilla laws and Traditions with- 
outso much asa mellifluous grumble. Daughters of Cacophony 
have no great love for the sect, but no great dislike of it either, 
and it has been noted that the bloodline tends to follow the 
Masquerade whether it is enforced locally or not. There is also 
speculation that the Daughters prefer dealing with the Camarilla 
clans to dealing with the Tzimisce and Lasombra of the Sabbat, 
but speculation is all it is. In the meantime, the Kindred of the 
Camarilla generally agree that it’s better to have the Daughters 
on the inside than the outside, and best of all to have them so 


s and warfare, it seems, mean 


THe GIOVANNI 

There are no Giovanni in the Camarilla. Oh, there are 
certainly members of the Giovanni clan who claim member- 
shipin thesect, and whofollow the forms, figuresand functions 
of Camarilla membership, butthey are no more true Camarilla 
vampires than a lump of pyrite is true gold. Claiming disen- 
chantment with family policies, Giovanni “defectors” seek 
asylum in the sect and bring with them valuable intelligence 
about the Giovanni's true aims and actions. 

It should come as no surprise that the “intelligence” is 
a mishmash of self-contradictory lies, the disenchantment is 
dissembling, and that these so-called Giovanni antitribu are 
nothing more than deep-cover moles inside the Camarilla 
organization. Some take a high profile; others attempt to 
pass as Ventrue or Toreador when they can. Regardless of 
style, however, every single Giovanni who has weaseled 
himself into the sect is there to subvert, spy and misinform, 
and does his level best to accomplish those goals. Some wait 
decades or even centuries before acting, but all ultimately 
and unquestioningly owe their allegiance to the clan. 

Spies of this ilk who are caught usually don’t last long 
enough to talk; the clan’s arrangement with ghosts pro- 
vides for the equivalent ofa suicide pill for the imprisoned 
Giovanni. Better and better precautions are being taken 
these days, and “defectors” are being questioned more and 
more thoroughly, but that just means that the spies the 
Giovanni are sending in have to be better prepared. 


completely distracted by their projects that they pay the rest of 
the world no heed at all. 

* Dealing With Others 

The Camarilla offers an abundance of clans with whose 
members the Daughters delight in dealing — so to speak. The 
Ventrue offer patronage, the Malkavians inspiration and the 
Toreador collaboration, companionship and competition. 
Among those three clans, there’s more than enough to keep a 
Daughter busy at Elysium. The other clans of the Camarilla 
don’tseem to interest the Daughters—precious little does, after 
all — but at least there seems to be no active hostility present, 
Aber Á Danghterof Cucophonydoernot recoil hororon 
a Nosferatu; she just has nothing to say to him. 
s (for so the bloodline is nicknamed) never take 
positions in a city’s government. A few have been known to 
deign to sit ‘with the harpies on occasion, but'a Daughter 
setving as primogen, sheriff or deo prohibe prince is a notion 
beyond the boundsof possibility. Those Daughters whoarein 
the Camarilla have no interest in shaping it or its policies 

e Roleplaying 

Daughters of Cacophony are devoted, at least in public, to 
their art. Whatever the bloodline’s hidden agenda might be, 
individual Daughters’ behavior in public always follows the same 
pattern: devotion tosingingand music, acomplete apathy toward 
all things political, and utter disdain for any not so talented as 
they. Despite their disinterest in all things martial, the Daughters 
do not hesitate to defend themselves (and some say that the 
threshold of provocation has been reduced as the bloodline’s 
songs have grown in power) with all the force at their disposal. 

On the other hand, Sirens are often inclined to look 
favorably on those who praise their work intelligently — “You 
sing real purty” isn't likely to win a Daughter’s favor. The 
Daughters are also likely to haunt local Elysiums in search of 
powerful and educated patrons. What the Daughters do with 
those patrons is a mystery best left to the darkest recesses of 
the imagination — at least if you believe the rumors. 


Sire 


SAMEDI 

The Samedi of the Camarilla are a curious lot. Solitary by 
nature, they are seldom offered the option of being gregarious in 
any case; noone wants to get too close tothem. Highly transient, 
Samedi bounce from city to city and Elysium to Elysium, 
following the scent of contract work for high-ranking Camarilla 
officials. Sufficiently distanced observers look on this migratory 
existence asa survival tactic—stay too long in one place and the 
locals eventually stop being afraid of you. Familiarity breeds 
contempt, and for the Samedi, contempt can be fatal. 

Camarilla Samedi aren’t after acceptance in any case. 
Rather, they're with the organization for a variety of reasons: 
dislike of Sabbat tactics, a desire for the protection the 
Camarilla aegis offers, and sometimes just better pay on the 
Camarilla side of the fence. Pretty much all of the Camarilla 
Stiffs, however, share an unrelenting hatred of the Giovanni, 
and use what influence they have to encourage the Camarilla 


Teun Tracers oF Boon: Te Chans 


51 


to move against the Necromancers. The degree of influence 
individual Samedi can wield (there is no “organization” of 
Samedi worthy of the name) is impressive, as many are close 
to vampires of considerable power 

* Dealings With Others 

The average Samedi’s appearance is so repulsive — and 
the wry humor with which the Stiffs invariably present 
themselves so contrary to expectations — that other vam 
pires can't deal with them without some sort of frame of 
reference. A Samedi who's in town specifically to serve as a 
bodyguard for an archon or a prince can be accepted, on a 
certain level. He’s here to doa job, afterall, and even the most 
prejudicial Toreador has to admit that the unique talents of 
the Samedi let them do certain jobs very well. But to admit 
a Samedi into normal discourse and society, well, that goes 
beyond the pale. Nosferatu are ugly, but Samedi are corpselike, 
revealing a bit too much about the true nature of vampirism 
for other Kindred to be comfortable around them 

For their own part, the Samedi enjoy keeping everyone 
else off-balance, as it makes their usual job of bodyguard that 
much easier. And, as no one can actually afford to offend the 
Samedi for fear of retribution, the Stiffs push that advantage 
for all it’s worth. Samedi aren’t actually contemptuous of 
their fellows in the Camarilla, just amused by them. Even the 
monsters find some things a little too monstrous, it seems. 

* Roleplaying 

Despite their monstrous appearance, Samedi are, in 
their own way, urbane and civilizec they don't shamble, 
ooze or moan, and most can hold up their end of a conversa 
tion with the best of them. A great many Samedi worked as 
coroners, morticians and the like, and as such have a long: 
standing acquaintance with death and other uncomfortable 
topics. In addition, there's a streak of semi-sadistic humor 
endemic to the bloodline, and many Samedi simply can’t 
resist subtly playing up their deformity while being as polite 
as possible, just to watch the Toreador and Ventrue squirm 

When it comes time for business, however, Samedi are 
more than happy to get their hands dirty. Members of the 
bloodline have a very low bullshit tolerance; when you look 
like the stuff at the bottom of the pile in the dumpster, you 
can’t afford to judge anything other than results. While 
Samedi do show a small preference for spending time in the 
presence of Nosferatu (whom they generally won't take as 
targets on assassination contracts) as opposed to any other 
vampires, they still prefer professional contacts to social ones. 


It’s easier for all concerned that way 


MINOR INCURSIONS 


The following clans have few, ifany, members who have 


pledged their allegiance to the Camarilla. Most have profes- 
sional dealings with the sect, and their presence here is more 
ı matter of completeness than anything else. It is rare, if not 


impossible, foramember of the Tzimisce, Assamite orRavnos 


clans to proclaim himself a member of the Camarilla. Other 
llegiances come first 
Some bloodlines, such as the Kiasyd, have absolutely no 


Camarilla involvement, and as such are not mentioned here 


ASSAMITEt 

Hassan's childer see the Camarilla as a source of work 
nothing more. An Assamite’s loyalty is to the clan, first and 
foremost; the Camarilla offers nothing other than targets or 
employers to an Assassin. With the Camarilla’s strictures 
against diableric firmly in place, Assamite existence and the 
Traditions of the Camarilla would seem to offer little grounds 
for compromise. Assamites are more than happy to work for 
Camarilla vampires, but solely as independent contractors. 
Any childe of Hassan who claims loyalty to the sect is either 
deranged or running a very weak bluff 


RaAvNnos 

There are a very few Ravnos who proport themselves to 
be members of the Camarilla and actually mean it. Ravnos of 
the Camarilla are, to a man, no k r welcome among their 
clanmates, and take succor where they can. Forsome, putting 
up with the humorless elders of the Camarilla is preferable to 
a quick death, and so they attempt to rein in their socially 
unacceptable tendencies enough to avoid being staked out by 
their new playmates as well 

A handful of princes have Ravnos “Fagins” working for 
them to steal items of power and information from their 
enemies; a little diablerie in the cause of the prince’s work gets 
ignored or even smiled upon, so long as it’s someone from the 
other side who's getting the bite put on them 

To say that sectarian Ravnos are distrusted by their 
Camarilla brethren is a vast understatement. Thankfully 


there are so few Ravnos in the Camarilla that most vampires 


never have their prejudices tested in the field. As for those 
who do mouth off or otherwise make their displeasure known 
they often find themselves short a valuable item — such as a 
piece of jewelry, a document or a favorite ghoul’s liver — for 
their trouble. Just because a Raynos joins the Camarilla 


doesn’t mean that he’s either well-behaved or nice 


TZIMISCE 

If there are a half-dozen Tzimisce in the Camarilla, it 
would bea major surprise. The vast majority of the clan belongs 
to the Sabbat; the rest are apolitical in the extreme. The very 
presence of the Tremere in the sect guarantees that the 
Tzimisce have no interest in signing on. Those very, very few 
Tzimisce who have deigned to join forces with the Camarilla 
have done so for intensely personal reasons (say, to avenge a 
mortal insult or to use the Camarilla to dispose of a rival in the 
Sabbat). However, even under these dire circumstances the 
Camarilla’s few Tzimisce do notadvertise their presence, donot 
take leadership roles in the sect and do not tend to stick around 


once their personal objectives are accomplished. 


Seduced and abandoned by their sires, the Caitiff are everywhere on the 
fringes of Camarilla society. Clanless and unwanted, the Caitiffare the results 
of one-night stands, infatuations, frenzied Embraces and outright mistakes. 


Most have hazy recollections, at best, of sire and Embrace; some have none 


whatsoever. Stumbling along in the haze of a new existence, each eventu- 


ally discovered the keys to survival — usually in the form of other Caitiff 
looking out for the newcomer — or died trying. 

A Caitiff’s only identifying mark is a lack of identifying marks. 
Some Kindred theorists posit that some sort of “imprinting” between. 
sire and childe takes place over time, allowing the younger vam- 
pire toacquire the physical characteristics ofhersire as mandated 
by the blood. Caitiff, however, have no such distinguishing 
marks — Caitiff descended from Nosferatu, for example, 
may be ugly, but rarely do they show the full-blown 
monstrosity of their vampiric ancestors. Thus it goes for 
other Caitiff; ones Embraced by Malkavians may be a little 


quirky but not necessarily prey to full-blown derar 


ments, 
ones Embraced by Ventrue may have feeding preferences but not 
full-blown prey exclusions, and so on. An informed observer can 
generally guess with reasonable accuracy what a Caitiffs 
lineage might be, but in the end, it’s rarely worth even 
the attempt to do so 
Caitiff fill in the positions in Camarilla society 
that no one else really wants. While the Camarilla 
may take the clanless in on occasion out of a vague 
sense of paternalism, the clans take care of their own first 
and leave the scraps for the Caitiff. Some Caitiff scorn 
active participation in city politics as second-class citizens, 
while others gladly seize any opportunity as a toehold in the establishment 
In the meantime, the majority of clanless skirt involvement out of self- 
preservation, preferring to have the putative benefits of membership in the 
Camarilla without being drawn into its politics. 
Nickname: Trash 
Appearance: Caitiff often appear as more poorly dressed versions of 
their accepted cousins, aping Toreador or Brujah style on a rather limited 


budget. Few display truly outstanding physical characteristics marking 


them as descended from one clan or another — disdainful Ventrue have 


referred to Caitiff as “generic” in appearance, and the Caitiff have seized 


upon the slight as an ironic badge of honor. A close look at any gang of 
mortal vampire-wannabes often reveals one or two Caitiff, dressed in their 


imitative best and enjoying the hell out of the whole scene 


RULLA 


Quote: I didn’t ask to have this done to me. I didn’t ask 
to be a vampire. But since one of you high-and-mighty SOBs 
did it to me, and I'm one of you now, I'll be damned if I'm 
gonna be a peon for the rest of eternity 


Havens: Caitiff make havens wherever and whenever 
they can. Basement apartments and abandoned tenements 
are particular favorites, as no one else wants these places and 
the Caitiff aren't likely to be booted out of them after having 
set up shop. 

ackground: Caitiff are primarily a development of the 
last century, especially the years since World War II. Alarm- 
ist Kindred point to the explosion in the numbers of the 
clanless as a harbinger of Gehenna, but more level-headed 
vampires see the problem as symptomatic of a breakdown in 
the traditional social orders. 

Caitiff often flock together, forming coteries out of 
desperation and for defense. Groups of the clanless tend to 
have short life expectancies; they shatter, fragment and 
reform on a regular basis. Caitiff come from all walks of life. 
Most receive the Embrace as an accident of fate, rather than 
by design, and as such that means that there's no such thing 
as a “typical” candidate for Caitiffhood. All that the Caitiff 
share is a knack for having been in the wrong place at the 
wrong time. 

Character Creation: Caitiff have to survive on the 
streets with little orno help, anda few debilitating conditions 
that most neonates are in no shape to deal with on their own. 
While Caitiff are spread across the spectrum of mental, social 


and physical capabilities, those who survive longest often 
have Mental or Physical as their Primary. Streetwise, Subter- 
fuge and Survival are common Abilities among Caitiff, but a 
Caitiff's experience and education can run the gamut. 


Dis 


lines: Any (Defaultto Fortitude, Potenceand Presence) 
Weakni Caitiff can purchase any Discipline at char- 
acter creation, but thereafter have to pay six times current 
rating forany andall powers purchased with experience points. 
On a more basic level, Caitiff suffer a social stigma from 
notbeingpart ofan accepted clan. Asaresult, more established 
Kindred feel free to snub or denigrate Caitiff freely. Until a 
Caitiff establishes herself in a city or social circle, she’s at +2 
difficulty on all Social rolls with all non-Caitiff vampires. 
Organization: Every so often, someone attempts to orga- 
nize the Caitiff intoaclanlike structure. The attempt inevitably 


fails, in part because of the innate fractiousness of Caitiff 
society and in part because the established clans have a vested 
interest in keeping the Caitiff disorganized. On a night-to- 
night basis, Caitiff organization works, at best, on a local 
level, and most often not at all 


STEREOTYPES, 

Camarilla: Well, the Sabbat wants us dead, so 1 can 
deal with the crap from the Cammies for a while instead. I'd 
rather get sneered at than shot at, you know? But things are 
changing. It doesn't matter if they want to keep the power 
away from us. These days, there are enough of us to take it 

Sabbat: Oh, sure, they offer you the world — then they 
haul off and hit you on the back of the head with a shovel and 
bury your ass. And that’s if they actually bother to stop and talk 
instead of just trying to kack you right off the bat. I don't like 
them, don’t trust them and would just as shoot them as see them. 


Tue View From WITHOUT 

The Camarilla 

Well, better that they serve as our buffer and first 
line of defense than they cross over and join the Sabbat: 
By allowing the clanless to join us, we protect the 
Masquerade, defend ourselves and keep the streets 
quiet. Those benefits are worth the price of occasion- 
ally seeing a Caitiff putting in an appearance at Elysium. 

— Danielle Foster, Brujah primogen. Louis 

The Sabbat 

Hey, man, the Sabbat is great. You don’t have to 
take any of the crap you get in the Camarilla — over 
here we're organized. They call us Panders, not Caitiff, 
and we got a voice! It’s so much better than putting up 
with Toreador attitude and waiting for their table 
scraps. Just come to one meeting, man — l swear, if you 
don’t like it, you can walk away with no harm done. 

— Kai Simmons, recent Sabbat initiate 

The Independents 

The clanless are a distraction. The trick is to make 
certain that they distract our opponents, rather than us. 
A justicar who's busy hunting down a particularly 
obnoxious gang of Caitiff isn't busy poking into our 
concerns. It’s that simple 

Rafael Giovanni 


THN Tracers oF BLooD:The Crans 


55 


GARGOYLES 


Dependingupon whom one asks, there are two(slavestothe the choice of sect comes from Gargoyles’ desire to thumb their 
Tremere and free), three (sentinels, warriors and scouts) orone collective at their former masters, a deep-seated residual 
(just lump the ugly bastards together) classifications formembers need for order and the chain of command, observation that the 
of the Gargoyle bloodline. In these tumultuous nights, it is often Camarilla’s pay scale is significantly better than the Sabbat’s 
easiest to break down the Gargoyles by affiliation, rather than or even fundamental agreement with Camarilla philosophy is 
ancestr mong the ranks of the free Gargoyles, terms lik irrelevant. There are more and more Gargoyles appearing on 
scout” are shunned as evidence of a less-than-pleasane past. As the streets, and more and more of these place themselves firmly 


the years tick by, more and more free Gargoyles have made under the Masquerade 


themselves known, many The Gargoyles who remain slaves of the Tremere are 


Y 


f them aligning Camarilla as well, but by default. Most have little or no sense 
with th of identity, no memories of existence before being trans: 
Camarill formed into Gargoyles and no free will. A Tremere-bound 
Whether Gargoyle who begins to demonstrate more than a rudimen 
best hide it until such time as she can 
king at re-indoctrination or destruction 
The first revolt of the Ga ght the Tremere all 
the lessons they needed about securing the loyalty 
of their servants, and the Warlocks have no 
> to risk a repeat performance 
However, it is the free Gargoyles 


who make the best player characters 


(Players who wish to nma G: 
who begins play enslav 

N Tremere should check with 

À their Storytellers — an es 

t cape chronicle can be 

thrilling, but other op 

tions are limited) 


Descendants of 


those so-called 
A Shaveswhocs 
óa ped 


SS 


Quote: The master does not recognize me now 
but I recognize him, yes. Soon I will make him remem- 


ber me, yes? 


from Tremere domination in centuries past and more recent 
escapees, the free Gargoyles cluster in isolated communities 
either in mountain retreats or industrial cities that offer nothing 
to the Tremere. More adventurous souls flock to Camarilla 
cities to offer themselves as bodyguards, muscle and other sorts 
of labor for hire. It is a show of prestige for a prince to have 
Gargoyle bodyguards at her Elysium, and a show of strength to 
be able to afford Gargoyle assassins to deal with enemies. 

Nickname: Formerly Slaves, now a hodge-podge includ- 
ing Freemen, Runaways and Rockheads, depending on who's 
using the nickname. Calling a free Gargoyle a Slave is a 
wonderful way to have a large, stone-encrusted fist punched 
through your abdomen repeatedly. 

Appearance: Like the Nosferatu (with whom they share 
an Appearance score of 0), Gargoyles are hideously ugly 
While the exact features of that ugliness are dependent on 
the original combination of blood (Nosferatu-Tzimisce, 
Nosferatu-Gangrel or Gangrel-Tzimisce) that created the 
Gargoyle’s ultimate ancestor, there are certain traits all 
members of the bloodline share. Warts and other protrusions, 
batlike wings (that grow as the Gargoyle’s mastery of the 
Visceratika Discipline grows) anda stony countenance are all 
endemic to Gargoyles, as is a generally “demonic” appear- 
ance. Gargoyles move slowly and deliberately except in crisis 
situations, but there is no truth to the rumor that they leave 
small piles of dust behind them when they walk. 

Haven: Gargoyles employed by the Tremere sleep in 
closets, basements or wherever else their masters deign to let 
them rest. Free Gargoyles often request lodging as part of a 
contract, meaning that the end results can be somewhat 
haphazard. Those Gargoyles who find their own resting 


places usually end up in deserted warehouses or factories — 
the taller the better 
systems hewn from solid rock. Bell towers used to be favorites, 
but the stereotypical nature of the abode made Gargoyles 
nesting there easy pickings for Tremere ghouls. 


or in subterranean cave or sewer 


Background: The process of cre 
ecially for those taken directly by 
of competing strains of vitae, com- 


tion is particularly 
intense for Gargoyles, e: 
the Tremere, The surg 

bined with the magical energy inherent to the transformation 
even after all of these centuries, serves to wipe away the pre- 
existing memories and loyalties of a new Gargoyle, leaving a 
tabula rasa on which the Tremere can work. The process is a 
trifle gentler for Gargoyles Embraced by other Gargoyles, 
who sometimes retain at least vague senses of their former 
lives, but even so most of the past just dissolves under the 
occult onslaught. (Note: Free Gargoyles actually Embrace 


mortals; the Tremere prefer to take Kindred of the three 
“root” clans and transform them into Gargoyles.) As for what 
drives aC 
of simple obsession. There’s neither reason nor rhyme to the 
matter, and even the most eloquent members of the bloodline 


rgoyle to Embrace a mortal, most times it’s a case 


shrug and put it down to “gut feeling.” 

Character Creation: Physical Attributes and Talents 
should be primary when one is creating a Gargoyle character; 
the Tremere did not design the bloodline for philosophizing 
or intrigue. All Gargoyle characters start with at least one dot 
in the unique Discipline Flight (In essence, this gives the 
Gargoyles four Clan Disciplines, but there are sufficient 
disadvantages to level the playing field). No Gargoyle can 
take the Mentor Background, or have an Appe: 
than 0. Furthermore, no Gargoyle can have a character 
history that predates 1167, as that was when the Tremere 


rance greater 


actually created the bloodline 

Weaknesses: As noted earlier, Gargoyles have a slight 
problem with Appearance. In addition, the nature of the 
bloodline’s origin manifests itself in the fact that Gargoyles 
are considered to be down two Willpower points when 
resisting all Dominate or other mind-controlling effects. 

Disciplines: Fortitude, Potence, Visceratika, Flight (see 
page 115). 


STEREOTYPES 
Camarilla: The Camarilla keeps us safe from the 
masters. The Camarilla lets us kill our enemies — except 
the masters. The Camarilla pays us well. We like the 
Camarilla, oh, yes 
Sabbat: They never look up, poor sad little vampires 
They never look up, and they never see us coming, no 


Tue View From Without 

The Camarilla 

Them suckers is ugly, and for me to be saying it, you 
know it's gotta be true. But ugly never meant bad in a 
fight, and since that’s all we ever use ‘em for 

Mort, Nosferatu agent provocateur 

The Sabbat 

Rock on their skins and rocks in their heads. Sure, 
they're tough, but they're dumber than a box of —well, 
you get the idea. Make them think and they're lost 

— Laszlo Mira 

The Independents 


The fact that the Gargoyles have managed to es- 


, Bishop and Ventrue antitribu 


cape and even flourish is one of the few hopeful signs I've 
heard in millennia. They should be careful not to press 
their luck too far, however, which they seem to be on the 
verge of doing. 

—lL 


arus, recently re-awakened Cappadocian 


Teun Tracenies oF BLooo:The Cans 


57 


ANTITRIBU 


There are no Lasombra antitvibu, at least, not according to the Lasombra themselves. The 
Sabbat Lasombra deny that “traitors” exist, while the so-called antitribu see themselves as 
Lasombra — nothing more, nothing less. Not all Lasombra who disagree with the clan's 
stance within the Sabbat join the Camarilla—a significant percentage of this relatively 
small number simply go independent and absent themselves from vampiric politics 
entirely. The remainder, however, seize for themselves positions of respect and authority 

if not prominence — in the Camarilla 
Philosophically, Camarilla Lasombra differ little from their Sabbat compatriots on 
i basic level. The antitvibu still fully expect to win the Jyhad; they just see the Camarilla 


A as a more efficient and effective tool for doing so than the Sabbat is. Distaste for the 
“CAB fe rabble the Sabbat is encased in shows clearly in Camarilla Lasombra’s attitudes, as they 
AA regard the Sabbat tactic of mass Embraces as wasteful and insulting. Indeed, even the 


supporters of antitribu inclusion in the Camarilla see these vampires as haughty, 
arrogant and impatient. Few suffer fools or incompetent underlings to live, and the 


penalty for failing an assignment set by a Lasombra antitribu is often death 


The position occupied by these few self-exiled Kindred is an ambiguous one. On 
one hand, these vampires are Lasombra, the core of the dreaded Sabbat, and no 
Camarilla vampire is ever completely certain than the defection is a 

real one. On the other hand, essentially all Lasombra antitribu are 


Y RANN 


\ 


creatures of undeniable power and presence, and are devoted to the 


destruction of the Sabbat in a way that few other Kindred are. The 


A 


Camarilla cannot afford to waste these Cainites’ talents, powers and 
knowledge ofthe enemy — but cannot afford to trust them entirely, either 
Nickname: None. The Lasombra antitribu don’t go for that sort of thing 


N) It’s not dignified 


WN 


My 


Appearance: Lasombra antitribu always find a way to look formal, regardless 


) of circumstances. Most are of Iberian or Moorish descent, though a handful of the 
The elder Lasombra antitribu choose, 


"Y 


very newest Embracees are of mixed heritage 
whenever possible, to wear clothing suitable to the days of their youth; in many cases that 


means anything from half-armor to the robes of one of the poet-kings of the Andalusian taifas. 


Young Lasombra antitribu go more for sharp suits with a hint of Latin style, understated jewelry 
and sleek black cars that hint ar their owners’ affluence and power. While all Lasombra antitribu 
understand viscerally the need to keep a low profile (those who don’t end up as ashes), they still 
insist on taking on the world according to their terms. Giving up so small a piece of identity as 
preferred modes of dress is, in some sense, to submit to another's will —and these Kindred would 
rather die than submit 
Haven: The majority of Lasombra antitvibu are constantly on the move, the better to avoid 
being pinned down by their erstwhile brethren in the Sabbat. Many have an apartment or two, 
preferably in ritzy downtown tower complexes that come complete with extensive security systems 
and off-street, secure parking garages. Older antitribu prefer to dwell outside the cities on large 
estates, willing to risk the potential depredations of Lupines in exchange for privacy and some 
separation from nightly struggl 
ackground: The Lasombra antitribu have existed as long as the Sabbat has, which is to say 
that more than one clan member agreed with Montano’s choice to tum his back on his 


clanmates. The Sabbat Lasombra have always done their best to deny even the 


Quote: I have known Ysidro for six centuries, and I 
knew his sire before him. Do youreally think you know better 
than I how he's going to plan his attack? T thought not — 
you're dismissed. 


existence of any antitribu; such vampires by their very exist- 
ence give the lie to claims about Sabbat and Lasombra 


hegemony. Asa result, Lasombra antitribu are the first target 


of any Sabbat packs in a given city. The mere rumor of an 


antitribu's presence is enough to whip the local Sabbat 
Lasombra into a homicidal frenz 

There are two distinct types of Lasombra antitribu. The 
majority (though still small in number) are older than the 
Camarilla itself; they are the Lasombra who joined with 
Montano in turning their backs on the nascent Sabbat. Some 
of them are still bitter about Lasombra’s death; others simply 
disliked Gratiano and his choice ofallies. In either case, these 
aged defectors are powerful, dignified and in most cases bitter. 
They have little use for the younger generations of vampires, 
and less for the Sabbat. Given a chance and a receptive 
audience, a Lasombra antitribu will talk endlessly about the 
old days, giving his listener a fascinating portrait of times, 
kings and customs now long gone — but precious little about 
the Lasombra himself. (Note: Almost all Lasombra of this 
vintage are male; the custom of Embracing women didn’t 
catch on among the Lasombra antitribu until quite recently) 

The other sort of Lasombra antitribu are young, angry and 
of remarkably low generation for Cainites so new to the 
Blood. The newer Lasombra antitribu are the childer of the 
aged and vengeful ones, plucked from mortality in accor- 
dance with the ancient customs of Lasombra himself. Most 
often, these mortals are in line to be snatched up by the local 
Sabbat — particularly Sabbat Lasombra — or remind the 
elder Lasombra irresistibly of someone from centuries past. 

Character Creation: La 
exceptional specimens for the Embrace, but regard a quick wit 
and self-possession as the essential elements of a Lasombra. 
With that in mind, Social and Mental Attributes come first 
asombra antitvibu, and Talents are more 


ombra antitribu tend to prefer 


and second for many 
important than Skills and Knowledges. Generation is perhaps 
the most important Background for a Lasombra antitribu; they 
are either old, or the childer of ancient vampires. 
Disciplines: Dominate, Obtenebration, Potence 
Weaknesses: Like their cousins in the Sabbat, Lasombra 
antitribu havea slight problem with mirrors and other reflective 
surfaces. Lasombra antitribu do not have reflections in the 
normal sense; they don’t show up in mirrors, windowpanes, 
pools of water or black-and-white photographs. Such a handi- 
cap makes Lasombra antitribu easy to identify for those who are 


looking for such, but the wise vampire has long since learned 
to avoid situations wherein he'd be compromised thus. In 
addition, since Lasombra are so heavily attuned to shadow, 
they take an extra level of damage from exposure to sunlight. 

The final handicap facing Lasombra antitribu (beside the 
vestigial distrust of the rest of the Camarilla) is the intense 
hatred that Sabbat Lasombra bear for their straying brethren. 
A Lasombraantitribu is always the first target ofa Sabbat pack, 
and supposedly entire Camarilla cities have been besieged 
just to get a particularly durable straggler. 

Organization: Lasombraantitribuhave created for them- 
selves a miniature version of Les Amies Noir, the so-called 
Friends of the Dark. The antitribu are so rare, however, and 
their meetings are so infrequent that most of these vampires 
fall back on a simple sire-childe relationship. Nine times out 
of 10, there are no other antitribu around. 


STEREOTYPES 

Camarilla: Make no mistake, we do not find the 
Camarilla that much more palatable than the Sabbat — but 
ours is an existence of inches and degrees. If the Camarilla 
serves our purposes even infinitesimally better, it has our 
support. 

Sabbat: Everything that is corrupt and degraded about 
Gratiano and his sycophants manifests itself in the Sabbat. 
Everything that would have made Lasombra himself ill with 
disgust is there, in plain view. It is time to wipe the slate clean 
and start over. 


Tue View FROM WITHOUT 

The Camarilla 

Do we dare turn them away? No, for without us they 
will inevitably be destroyed, and by their mere existence 
they are a dagger at the Sabbat’s throat. Do we dare trust 
them? How can we? 

— Phillippe de Greffuhle, Sheriff of Lyon 

The Sabbat 

Ifany of these pathetic fossils still exist —and I doubt 
that they do — then they are merely marking time 
waiting for death. Should I learn of any in my domains, 1 
will be certain to make sure they don’t have to wait long. 

— Francisco Domingo de Polonia 

The Independents 

Are they curiosities, freaks of unnature? Or is there 
something more to this most persistent of resistances? By 
all rights, the antitribu should have been wiped out centu- 
ries ago. What — or who — has allowed them to survive? 

— Leah, Monitor of Sheffield 


THN Traces oF Boon: Tie Chans 


59 


That is why we dread children, even if we love them 


They show us the state of our decay 


Brian Aldiss 


Even the mightiest and most populous sect is composed, 
in the end, of individual Kindred. Each of those Kindred has 
hopes, dreams, fears and hidden horrors. Each of those 
Kindred is unique, a single thread in a long and bloody 
tapestry. But these individuals don’t spring fully formed into 
existence. They must be created. 

That’s where this chapter comes in. It’s a guide to 
creating characters who are by, for or of the Camarilla. The 
assumption is made, wrongly, that characters simply default 
to Camarilla allegiance. This is not true. Ifa vampire is going 
to be part of the Camarilla, he’s part of it for a reason. That 
reason may be as simple as sheer inertia, but it’s there 
nonetheless. So when you create a Camarilla character, you 
have to think about why exactly he belongs to the sect. 

Whar you'll find in here is a step-by-step guide to 
creating a Camarilla vampire (not just a vampire), plus new 
Traits, Archetypes and other methods of making him a 
unique individual. Nothing in here is mandatory — you can 
get along just fine with the character creation chapter in 
Vampire: The Masquerade — but to create a vampire who 
has a deeper connection to the sect, look here. 


Step Ont 
CHARACTER CONCEPT 


The concept is the wellspring from which the whole of 
the character arises. Without a good idea as to who and what 
your character is, all the rest — dots and Disciplines ran- 


domly strewn on the page — don’t hang together. And if the 
character doesn't hang together, then stories built around 
that character won't hang together, and the whole thing 
comes crashing down 

A character concept doesn’t need to be incredibly de- 
tailed — if you have your vampire’s existence from birth to the 
present down cold and regimented into five minute intervals, 
something's wrong — but it should be a basic, strong idea that 
gets you excited about being this person for a while. 

Ie goes without saying that yourcharacter concept should 
be intrinsically tied to the Camarilla somehow. The relation- 
“anarch trying to take 


but it does 


ship doesn’t have to be lovey-dovey 


down the prince” is a perfectly valid concept 


need to connect somehow 


CLAN 

Your choice of clan is one of the most important deci- 
sions you make in creating a character. Your vampire’s clan 
dictates her Disciplines, weaknesses and, to a large portion, 
the way other characters look at her. With that in mind, the 
choice of clan should never be made lightly. You can’t swap 
clans the way you can swap jobs, after all. If you don’t like 
1 Brujah, it’s not like you can start stockpiling 
ence to learn how to be a Gangrel. 


being xperi- 
Your basic choices for clan are the six or seven clans 
ffiliated with 
»sferatu, To- 
reador, Tremere and Ventrue are the basic options, and 


(dependingon howone classifies the Gangrel) 
the Camarilla. Brujah, Gangrel, Malkavian. 


FROM THE BEGINNING: CHARACTER CREATON 


ól 


PLAYING AN ODDBALL 

While the six (orseven) core clans make up most of 
the Camarilla, there are a few other possibilities (as 
detailed in the clans chapter) available for play. Before 
a Storyteller allows a player to pick up a Gargoyle, a 
Camarilla Ravnos or one of the other, even lesscommon 
bloodlines, she should sit down with the player request- 
ing the unusual character type and make sure that there 
is a solid story reason for including such an offbeat 
Kindred in the story. There might be plenty of perfectly 
valid reasons for having a single Lasombra antitribu in a 
city, but having too many unusual character types in one 
place at one time stretches credibility. The integrity of 
the story has to come first. 


among them they offer a wide range of character possibilities. 
As well over 95 percent of the vampires in the Camarilla 
come from these clans, you should look to them first to see if 
any of them allow you to express your character concept fully 
In addition to the basic clans, Caitiff characters are also 
an option. If you're unsure about the concept you have, or 
aren’tquite sold on any of the particular clans, a Caitiff makes 
perfect sense. Such characters allow for more improvisation 
of both Disciplines and character concepts — the journey of 
self-discovery isa lot more literal for Caitiff than for vampires 
inducted into a solid clan framework — and also provide a 
roleplaying challenge, as there isn’t a stereotypical Caitiff 
image available to work from. Playing a Caitiff does have 
certain social consequences in-game, but for an introductory 
acharacter, or fora character whose concept isn’t quite clear, 


a Caitiff can be an excellent choice. 


Nature AND DEMEANOR (ArcHETYpES) 
A character's Nature and Demeanor are the basic per- 
sonality types that define her. Nature is the character's true 


self, the basis for all the details of her personality. Her 
Demeanor is the face that she shows to the world, the mask 
she puts on for night-to-night encounters. A character's 
Nature and Demeanor can be the same, but often a vampire’s 
Demeanor disguises, ever so subtly, what her true Nature is. 

Certain Archetype choices are, unsurprisingly, more suit- 
able for Camarillacharacters than others. The rulesofCamarilla 
society, need to maintain the Masquerade and other constric- 
tions of Kindred existence make a Monster Demeanor less 
likely than a Conformist one. A Camarilla vampire can still 
easily havea Monster Nature, butoddsare thathe hideshis true 
self well, the better to avoid suspicion. You should think about 
how well your character's Nature and Demeanor allow her to 
work within both her coterie and the Camarilla as a whole; 
acting according to your Nature is all very well and good, but 
if doing so gets your character killed in the first five minutes of 
gameplay, that Nature doesn’t serve the purpose of helping to 
create a solid character. After all, you're investing time and 


energy in creating your Kindred; building in something that 
will get her wiped out immediately and waste that investment 
simply doesn’t make sense 

A full list of Archetypes can be found on page 104 of 
Vampire: The Masquerade. Additional ones can be found 
on pp. 66 of this book. 


Step Two: SELECT ATTRIBUTES 


Attributes define your character's basic capabilities. 
Divided into Physical, Social and Mental categories, they 
serve to define your vampire’s baseline. All Camarilla vam- 
pires start with one dot in each of their Attributes (except 
Nosferatu and Camarilla-affiliated Samedi, who automati- 
cally have a zero rating in Appearance). 

When you hand out your vampire’s Attributes, the first 
thing to do is to prioritize the three categories they come in. 
You then get seven dots to put in your primary Attribute 
group, five for the secondary, and three for the tertiary in 
addition to the dots already present. The Camarilla encom- 
passes a wide variety of “types,” from Brujah bruisers to 
Malkavians Embraced as children, so there’s no “right” or 
“Camarilla” way to set up your character's Attributes. Simply 
try to keep your final arrangement in line with your original 
concept, and remember that you can come back later and 
adjust things with freebie points. 


Step THREE: SELECT ABILITIES 


The next step in the character creation involves assign- 
ing your character's Ability Traits. Abilities range from the 
basic — like Drive and Brawl — to the more esoteric, which 
are discussed on page 67. The way in which you distribute the 
points for your character's Traits determines what she can or 
can't do very well, and helps to realize the concept you came 
up with in Step One. That means that the way you allocate 
your character's points should line up with the way you 
envision your character — fragile artiste Toreador probably 


Hrt with tHe UGLY STICK 

Nosferatu and Samedi cannot ever increase their 
Appearance rating. It’s stuck at zero permanently. Most 
members of these two groups use Obfuscate (particularly 
Mask of a Thousand Faces) to sidestep that handicap in 
social situations, but even that workaround has its limi- 
tations. The “face” created with Mask of a Thousand 
Faces defaults to an Appearance rating of 2. Even at- 
tempts to look like specific, devastatingly attractive 
people end up missing a certain sine qua non, and falling 
somehow flat. To use Mask of a Thousand Faces to 
improve a character's Appearance requires spending two 
points of blood for each dot’s worth of improvement in 
the mask’s looks. 

Creating a mask with an Appearance rating of 1 
incurs no additional cost. 


Trt GUDE TO THe CAMARLLA 


62 


shouldn't wind up with a rating of Brawl 5, while you might 
notbe able to justify Harley-riding Gangrel anarchs with four 
dots each in Etiquette and Occult 

Ideally, you should think about who your character is first 
then allocate dots to help construct her to match that concept 
Filling in the circles on the character sheet, and then scrambling 
tofindaway to make the resultantconnect-the-dots puzzle make 
sense for the character can lead to all sorts of problems 

No vampire can have more than three dots in any given 
Ability tostart with (though thiscan be adjusted later with freebie 
points), and the base rating for all Abilities is zero. The Talents, 
Skills and Knowledges that make up Abilities are leaned and 


studied, not innate; if you don’t have one, you don’t have it 


SECONDARY ABILITIES 

Included in this book (and its counterpart, the Guide 
to the Sabbat) are what are known as Secondary Abilities. 
While the Skills, Talents and Knowledges in Vampire: 
The Masquerade are the essential ones for gameplay, 
there are a multitude of other Abilities, from archery to 
zymurgy, out there that will inevitably be vital tosomeone’s 
character history and concept. Some of them are refine 
ments of other, broader Abilities (Sense Deception’s 
function is included in Empathy, for example; the former 
is simply a refinement). Others are narrow enough spe 
cialtiesthat they're not likely tobe universal in application 
Either way, these Secondary Abilities are less pertinent 
than the basic Abilities in the main rulebook; that’s why 
they're called “Secondary.” 

Storytellers have three options when it comes to 
Secondary Abilities. One, they can simply ban them from 
the game. Doing so restricts character flexibility, but does 
simplify things 

The second possibility is to reduce the difficulty on all 
Secondary Ability rolls. A character who's good with Sense 
Deception should have a better chance to sniff out bullshit 
than one who's merely a generally empathic guy, after all 
Insuch instances, the difficulty of all rolls based off Second- 
ary Abilities should be a -2 difficulty as compared to what 
the roll would have been using a Basic Ability 

The final option is to make Secondary Abilities 
available at a lower cost than normal Abilities. Every 
point spent on a Secondary Ability during the third step 
of character creation nets two dots instead of just one 
Secondary Abilities bought with freebie points cost only 


one point per dot, and raising a Secondary Ability with 


experience costs only the Trait’s current rating 


Storytellers should feel free to use any and all, or 
none, of these approaches. It’s your game, after all 

A list of Secondary Abilities available to Camarilla 
vampires appears in the Vampire Companion on page 15 
Additional Secondary Abilities can be found in this book, 


starting on page 67 


Abilities, like Attributes, are broken down into three 
categories (the aforementioned Talents, Skills and 
Knowledges), and like Attributes, these are prioritized. Pri- 
mary Abilities get 13 dots, Secondary get 9 and Tertiary get 
5. Youcannot take dots from one category and pour them into 
another, even if you only see three dots’ worth of Knowledges 
that you want your character to have. 

Camarilla vampires do have casier access to some Abili- 
ties than do Sabbat vampires, but in return some 
Sabbat-specific Abilities are off limits to Camarilla vampires 
who don’t have a very good reason to have them. 


Step Four: 
SELECT ADVANTAGES 


Advantages are what, as much as clan, define a vampire 
as being such. The term “Advantages” covers Disciplines, 
Backgrounds and Virtues, and by defining these you finish 
establishing your character's basics. Advantages are not bro- 
ken down into categories to be prioritized. You simply get a 
certain number of dots for each type of Advantage, to spend 
as you will 


Out-or-CLAN DISCIPLINES 
There isa temptation, once one reaches the freebie 
points stage in character creation, to mortgage the 
figurative farm in order to purchase 
Disciplines as possible. Storytellers should be very care- 


s many out-of-clan 


ful in allowing characters to purchase out-of-clan 
Disciplines, though, as a preponderance of Disciplines 
bundled up in one character can unbalance a coterie 
very quickly. A chronicle wherein one character starts 
with six dots in six different Disciplines and another 
only has three can get lopsided very quickly. 

If a player wants to give his character additional 
Disciplines, he should be prepared to answer a few 
questions, like: 

© Are they really necessary to his character con- 
cept, and why does he want them? (“So I can kill more 
stuff” is the sort of answer that should give most Story- 
tellers pause.) 

¢ Who taught the character? Out-of-clan Disci- 
plines are not instinctive. The character would have 
had to pick them up somewhere and from someone; 
such outré powers do need a solid justification in the 
character's backstory. 

Furthermore, there are certain Disciplines 
(Chimerstry, Melpominee, Mytherceria, Necromancy, 
Obeah, Obtenebration, Quietus, Serpentis, Thanatopsis, 
Visceratika, Vicissitude) that should not be available to 
Camarilla vampires unless their clan origin specifically 
mandates such. The independent and Sabbat blood- 
lines are very jealous of their secrets, and aren't about to 
share them with Camarilla upstarts 


DIscIpLines 

A Camarilla vampire receives three dots’ worth of 
Disciplines initially, though this, too, can be modified with 
freebie points. Each clan has so-called “clan” Disciplines, 
vampiric powers that are innate to the bloodline and which 
can be learned instinctively by even the newest to the 
Blood. Other Disciplines, those not reflexive to a given 
clan, can be picked up later in the character creation process 
(see below), but at this point, the character is restricted to 
the powers directly linked to her clan. Each clan has three 
Disciplines in which it specializes, which provide a broad 


range of supernatural abilities in the physical, mental and 


social arenas. 


BACKGROUNDS 

Backgrounds are character history manifested in Trait 
form. Each character gets five dots’ worth of Backgrounds, 
which can be used in any combination you desire. You can 
stack upall five dots in one Background, or get one level each 
of five distinct ones. Your Storyteller can, as always, disallow 
certain Backgrounds, or keep characters below a pre-set 
ceiling. 

Camarilla vampires generally have a deep and broad 
investment in their Backgrounds, often using freebie points 
toadd to their ratings. Because of the forced socialization the 
sect mandates, it’s entirely sensible for a Kindred to have 
Contacts and Allies. The sect’s interaction makes a perfectly 
reasonable justification for Herd, Fame, Resources and Influ- 
ence, not to mention Retainers. A Mentor also makes for a 
useful Storyteller character, while Status can be given or 
taken away by the harpies in the space of a heartbeat. 


Virtues 

While Camarilla vampires aren’t “good guys” in the 
classic sense of the term, they do cling to a moral center as 
represented by their three Virtues. Conscience is the 
character's sense of right and wrong. Self-Control is the 
measure of how tightly the character controls her Beast 
and governs her own actions. Courage is self-explanatory, 
a rating of how well the character controls her fear and 
stands up to threats — anything from fire to Lupines to a 
hunter with a stake. These virtues are constants for all 
Camarilla vampires; even refugees from the Sabbat ac- 
quire these Traits. 

All vampires begin with one free dot in each Virtue, then 
seven more to distribute among the three. Virtues are very 
important to Camarilla vampires. A vampire with a low Self- 
Control rating is liable to lose control frequently, frenzy and 
threaten the Masquerade. If he does it too often, he'll be put 
down. A vampire with a low Conscience rating is liable to 
indulge in acts that may well encourage other Kindred to 
avoid her company, leaving her all alone when the hunters 
come calling. Anda Kindred with a low Courage rating isn’t 
going to be much use ina life-or-death situation — which the 
Kindred face every night. 


The Gune To THE CAMARILA 


64 


GENERATION 

It can be tempting to put all of your Background 
points into Generation. That way you get a bigger blood 
pool and can spend more blood per round, with no 
drawbacks, right? 

That’s not necessarily the case. A vampire with all its 
Backgrounds in Generation has no money, noone toturn 
to in a crisis, no protector, no feeding reserves and often. 
not much else. That’s what having no Allies, no Con- 
tacts, no Resources, no Mentor, no Herd and no other 
Backgrounds means. Players should not automatically 
assume that they default to comfortable status; without 
spending the points for a Background, they don’t have 
what the Background mandates. 


Step Five: Last TOUCHES 


At this point, you're almost finished with the basics of 
character creation. All thatremainsissome bookkeeping and 
the distribution of freebie points. Remember, though, that 
finishing with the dots doesn’t mean that you've finished 
creatinga character: If just means’ that. you've finistied with 
a character sheet. 


Humanity 

Humanity is the rating of how close a Kindred is to his 
human side — and how far he is from his Beast. A vampire 
with a low Humanity rating is too close to his animalistic side 
for comfort, and is that much nearer to sliding into the abyss 
permanently. A vampire's Humanity score is the sum of his 
Conscience + Self-Control ratings, and it can go as high as 
10. Humanity is vitally important to Camarilla vampires, 
especially younger ones. It is through maintaining touch with 
one’s Humanity that one keeps the Beast at bay, and making 
oneself presentable in polite company. 

At its most basic level, Humanity is what separates the 
Camarilla from the Sabbat. Characters with low Humanity 
scores are liable to be suspect in Camarilla circles. After all, 
the drive to keep in touch with one’s Humanity is one of the 
core philosophical stances of the Camarilla, and those who 
deviate from it or ignore that quest are, in essence, disregard- 
ing what the entire sect is about. 


WILLpOWER 

Your character’s Willpower score is equal to her Courage 
rating. As Willpower has a multitude of uses, from resisting 
Mental Disciplines to granting automatic successes on rolls, 
it is recommended that you devote freebie points to increas- 
ing your character’s Willpower. 


BLoop Poor 

Rolla 10-sided die. The result is your character's starting 
blood pool. It is assumed that any blood in your character's 
system at the beginning of gameplay is human, unless you and 
your Storyteller make arrangements otherwise. 


Freepie Domnts 

Freebie pointsare the 15 additional points youcan spend 
on whatever Traits you like. In addition, you can also buy 
Merits and Flaws (see page 295 of Vampire: The Masquer- 
ade, and page 72 of this book for more information on Merits 
and Flaws) to tweak your character to get it in line with your 
original conception. 


SPARK OF Lire 

At this point, you should have a fully filled-out character 
sheet—nota fully fleshed-out character. Younow need to think 
about your character's story — who she is, where she came from, 
why she was made into a vampire and what she’s doing with her 
unlife — before you're ready to play. You need to think about 
who she knows. If she has Allies, who are they? Other vampires 
who like her style or her aims? Mortals whom she’s kept up an 
acquaintance with? Asfor her Abilities, youneed to think about 
why she has that particular skill set. What incident in her past 
caused her to pick up three dots in Firearms? Why is she good 
with Dodge, but not particularly skilled at Brawl? Unless you 
have a reason for handing out each and every dot on the 
character sheet, those dots remain simply circles. By building a 
backstory that explains why your character has the Abilities, 
Backgrounds and whatnot that she does, you make her a real, 
viable character. If you don't, you just have a collection of dots. 


THe DRELUDE 


Vampires are made, not born. Each and every Kindred 
was the result of some other vampire’s conscious decision to 
Embrace a mortal and bring her into the unliving fold. 
There's a story behind each Embrace, a story called a prelude. 

Technically speaking, the prelude is the sequence of events 
leading up to a character's Embrace. It is recommended that, 
under normal circumstances, you roleplay out your character's 
prelude, if for no other reason than to grant some perspective on 
whoshe isand where she came from. Roleplaying out the prelude 
also allows you to establish the relationship between your 
character and her sire, to firm up the details of her Embrace (was 
itviolent?expected?accidental?) and todefine herentry intothe 
world of the Kindred. All of these are pivotal matters fora young 
vampire. By going through your character's prelude, you work 
outall of these important details, which gives both you and your 
Storyteller a better grasp of your character. You'll be able to 
portray her more realistically, and your Storyteller has more facts 
on which to hang plot hooks derived from her Embrace. 

The circumstances of a Camarilla vampire’s Embrace are 
slightly different from those of other Kindred. Remember, each 
Camarilla vampire is the result (in theory, at least), of someone’s 
being granted permission to Embrace. That means that there’s a 
vampiric backstory to each character, as well as the mortal’s own 
history. Either you or your Storyteller, depending on circum- 
stance, should know how exactly yourcharacter’ssire gotpermission 
to create her. The Camarilla politics leading to the Embrace can 
make for fascinatingstories, particularly ifsomeone wasn’t thrilled 


From THE BEGINNING: CHARACTER CREATION 


65 


with the way the boon ofcreation washandled. By thesametoken, 
the question of why exactly the character was selected for the 
Embrace needs to be faced. What drew her sire to her? Was she 
Embraced tofill aparticularneed in the city'shierarchy, orto spite 
another Camarilla vampire? Perhaps the Embrace was an acci- 
dent, ora hasty decision —what will the consequencesbe forboth 
neonate and sire? The Embrace is a complicated matter for both 
sire and childe when Camarilla politics get involved, and those 
politics always do manage to get involved somehow. 


COTERIE 


Odds are that your character is not going to be working 
alone. Instead, he'll most likely be part of a coterie, a circle of 
vampires bound by common interest, common enemies or 
just plain circumstance. It makes sense before you start play, 
however, to think about how your coterie fits together and 
how it fits into the local Camarilla. 

Establishing common ground for your coterie is essen- 
tial. If there’s no good reason for your gang to stick together, 
it won’t. That means fragmented storylines, stress for the 
Storyteller and lots of time spent sitting around as individual 
plotlines are run. It makes sense, then, to lay the groundwork 
for a coterie that works together, at least initially. Some good 
methods of keeping a group of young vampires together 
include princely fiat, a shared sire, a common enemy (either 
within or outside the Camarilla) or a mutual interest like 
music, the arts or travel. The form the coterie takes can be 
derived from the group's common bond. Vampires who share 
an interest in music, for example, might form a band, while 
a princely command to clean up the city might turn the 
coterie into a posse comitatus, complete with a shared look and 
standardized equipment. 

It’s also worth figuring out where exactly the coterie fits 
into the local Camarilla scene. Was the coterie’s formation 
sanctioned by the prince, or the characters’ sires? If not, what 
form will the disapproval of these older Kindred take? Any 
group of Kindred is a potential power base, and any coterie will 
have all sorts of other vampires looking at it as a result. With 
the others see the group asa threat, and ifso, what measures will 
they take? Is there an elder (or two) who wants to use the 
coterie for his own ends, and what will he do to ensure their 
cooperation? What is the coterie’s ultimate ambition, and does 
anyone know about it? If the group intends to become the 
primogen council eventually, the present holders of that office 
might decide tonip the threat in the bud. By establishing where 
your coterie belongs in the local Camarilla— if it belongs at all 
— you set the stage for the types of story to follow. 


ARCHETYPES 


Archetypes are basic personality types, frameworks on 
which to hang the details of a character. While a great many 
Archetypes are listed in Vampire: The Masquerade (p. 112), 
there are some personality types that are endemic to the 


Faster, Neonate Kir! Hii! 

Occasionally there are coterie combinations that 
just don’t work. Often such oil-and-water arrangements 
are the product of two characters in particular who 
simply don’t belong together, with neither character's 
player willing to surrender his creation for the good of 
the group. Such conflicts can tear a group apart, and 
wreck a chronicle in the process. 

Most situations of this type can be prevented with a 
little common sense. A good Storytellerkeepsan eye on the 
sorts of characters his players are creating, and if he sees a 
potential incompatibility. brewing, he should step in. Ide- 
ally, any players involved in creating a potential problem 
will be amenable to tweaking their character concepts 
before investing too much time or energy. Storytellers 
should take care toavoid the appearance of favoritism when. 
suggesting changes in character concepts, otherwise they 
run the risk of having resentful players. 

If the problem develops after gameplay starts, the 
best solution is to retire both of the problematic charac- 
ters and have the players create new Kindred under 
Storyteller supervision. 


Camarilla. A few of those are listed below, for use during the 
“Nature and Demeanor” section of character creation. 


IDEALIST 

The Idealist believes — truly, madly, deeply — in some 
higher goal or morality. The object of his idealism may be 
something as pragmatic as the Camarilla’s eventual triumph 
or as amorphous as the ultimate good, but the belief is there. 
Idealists are frequently either very new to the Blood or very 
old, and many seek after Golconda as the final expression of 
their idealism. In the meantime, an Idealist tries to reconcile 
his beliefs with the demands of vampiric existence, often 
acting contrary to self-interest to do so. 

— Regain a point of Willpower any time an action in 
pursuit of your ideals furthers your goals and brings your ideal 
closer to fruition. 


SOLDIER 

The Soldier is not a blindly loyal follower. While she 
exists for orders, she does not adhere to them unquestion- 
ingly. More independent than a Conformist but too tied into 
the idea of command to be a Loner, the Soldier applies her 
own techniques to others’ goals. While she may seek com- 
mand herself someday, her ambitions lie within the established 
hierarchy and structure. The Soldier has no compunctions 
about using whatever means necessary to do what needs to be 
done, so long as the orders to do so came from the right place. 

— Regain a point of Willpower when you achieve your 
orders’ objectives. The more difficult the orders are to fulfill, 
the better it feels to accomplish them. At Storyteller discre- 


Tht GUDE 10 THE CAMARILLA 


66 


tion, pulling off a spectacular success or fulfilling a lengthy 
mission may well be worth additional Willpower points. 


DABBLER 

The Dabbler is interested in everything but focuses on 
nothing. He flits from idea to idea, passion to passion and 
project to project without actually finishing anything. Oth- 
ers may get swept up in the Dabbler’s enthusiasm, and be left 
high and dry as a result when he moves on to something else 
without warning. Most Dabblers have high Intelligence, 
Charisma and Manipulation ratings, but not much in the way 
of Wits or Stamina. Toreador are often Dabblers, particularly 
those afflicted with the derisive sobriquet “Poseurs.” 

— Regain Willpower whenever you find a new enthusi- 
asm and drop your old one completely. 


SCIENTIST 

Toa Scientist, existence is a puzzle which she can help to 
reassemble. A Scientist logically and methodically examines 
her every situation and maneuver, looking for logical outcomes 
and patterns. This is not to say that the Scientist is always 
looking for a scientific or rational explanation, but rather, that 
she examines her surroundings rigorously and with a critical 
eye. The system a Scientist attempts to impose on the world 
may be completely ludicrous, but it is a system, and she sticks 
by it. Scientists have high Mental Attributes, and often hold 
low-ranking positions in Camarilla city governments. 

— Regain Willpower any time a logical, systematic 
approach to a problem helps you solve it, or information 
gathered logically is of use in another, similar situation. 


SECONDARY 
ABILITIES 


TALENTS 


DIPLOMACY 

“I'm not sure he’s worth it.” Adele's face contracted into a 
sour mask as she pondered the brooding young man at the end of 
the bar. “I mean, he's certainly pretty enough, but I'm not seeing 
anything else here worth preserving. Certainly not his mind.” 

Elieser looked up mournfully from the one-way glass window 
through which he and Adele were peering. “You just don't know 
him. He’s actually quite witty, and rather talented in several fields 
—his poetry's quite good —and, well, Prince Alexander said I had 
the right, and I’m choosing him!” The younger vampire’s face set 
in a pout, and his fingers twitched with frustration. 

Mentally, Adele sighed. She'd been through this before with 
Elieser — and Elieser’s sire before him. “Now let’s not be hasty, 
Eli. You're right, I don’t know him. Perhaps if you brought him 
into the family, one step at a time? That way I could learn what 
you see in him.” And you'll have time to get bored with him 
before I get saddled with another mistake, she added silently. 
Elieser nodded slowly, and Adele permitted herself a small smile 


Diplomacy is the art of handling difficult situations with tact 
and skill. Ic is also the ability to negotiate positions, rather than 
specifics—the latteristhe purview of Haggling. Youcan negotiate 
policy and treaties, and extricate yourself from unpleasant situa- 
tions with words, rather than force or use of Disciplines. 
. Novice: You can state your position without 
driving anyone away from the negotiating table. 
Practiced: You clan trusts you to represent iton 
some issues. 
Competent: Youragenda usually carries the day. 
Expert: You can handle labor strife and cutting 
deals with the Lupines with equal ease. 
Master: You can convince nations to alter their 
policies — and like it. 
Possessed By: Diplomats, Seneschals, Politicians, Am- 
bitious Ventrue 
Specialties: Settlements, Cease-Fires, Alliance Build- 
ing, Graceful Exits, Spin Doctoring 


HAGGLING 

“Absolutely not.” Selene Ameault, prince of Boulder, 
waved agitatedly at her petitioner. “You expect me simply to hand 

the entire campus to you and yours in exchange for some 
rumors about a Nosferatu city? Precisely when did you go insane, 
and how did I fail to notice it?” 

“Your Majesty.” Regent Sean Reynolds was, as always, 
unctuously polite. “I'm not asking for the entire campus — 
merely that you open up access to the rare documents library and 
some of the feeding rights to my new childe. In exchange, | offer 
concrete evidence of something untoward happening in your 
domain. Ihave maps, satellite photos, seismic records, eyewitness 
accounts and—,” he paused for effect, “a prisoner.” 

Ameault sat bolt upright. “Fascinating... Perhaps your childe 
wouldn't object to an observer when he visited the documents room?” 

“She, Your Majesty. And I’m sure she wouldn't.” 

You can trade favors, and negotiate costs and other 
specifics so that transactions come out in your favor. You can 
judge relative value of goods and services quickly and easily, 
and know when someone's attempting to rip you off. 

. Novice: Youcan knocka few bucks off the price 
of something at a flea market or garage sale. 
Practiced: You get used cars for what they're 
worth, not what they’re marked. 
Competent: Youcan play the game of prestation 
better than any of your peers. 
Expert: Princesask you if they're getting a good deal. 
Master: Youcangetwhatyou want, when you want 
it for the price you are willing to pay — always. 

Possessed By: Police Negotiators, Anarchs, Purchasing 
Agents, Houschold Ghouls, Importers, Nosferatu 

Specialties: Swaps, Selling Information, Fine Print, 
Contracts, Prestation 


From tHe BEGINNING: CHARACTER CREATION 


67 


INTRIGUE 

Simon Crabtree had been an angry young man three decades 
ago; now he was neither a man nor young, but he was still angry. 
“It’s all here, Karp. All of it. She mentions sabotaging my 
reading, though she barely has room to do so in between these 
repulsively saccharine endearments she scribbled. This whole 
goddamned thing is a love note to ruining my career!” 

Elias Karp stood impassively, watched his acquaintance im- 
passively and occasionally nodded as Crabtree ranted. It occurred 
to Karp, as Crabtree tossed off a particularly impressive rhetorical 
flourish, that perhaps he'd done too good a job in forging that letter. 
It certainly had been effective in riling Crabtree to the point of 
homicidal mania (which Crabtree was sure to act on ineffectively, 
thus getting himself disposed of one way or another) . It would surely 
cause all sorts of trouble for Crabtree's “beloved,” whose affairs 
were bound to come under scrutiny after her beau’s mania mani- 
fested. It might even win Karp some very hard-to-come-by ap- 
proval from some very important Kindred who knew what he had 
done. But was any of that worth listening to Crabtree's intermi- 
nable rant? The sacrifices one was forced to make... 

You can plot and plan effectively. You understand how 
to manipulate others through trickery and artifice, and you 
are expert at exposing a target’s vulnerabilities. Note that 
Intrigue is not Subterfuge; the latter involves fieldwork and 
actual sabotage, while Intrigue operates more ona theoretical 
and consequential level. Subterfuge is the art of planting a 
forged letter; Intrigue is the art of knowing whose handwrit- 
ing to forge for maximum effect. 

. Novice: Youmaneuverwellagainstasingleadversary. 
ee Practiced: You can figure out how to subvert an 
organized enemy. 
Competent: You can handle multiple plots 
simultaneously. 
Expert: You've woven a web of double- and 
triple-crosses, all to your benefit. 
Master: The rest of the Kindred are justsomany 
puppets, dancing on your strings. 
Possessed By: Spymasters, Harpies, Setite Recruiters, 
Secure Princes 

Specialties: Subversion, Isolating Opponents, Corpo- 

rate Sabotage, Mounting Coups 


SCROUNGING 

“So what the hell are we looking for, anyway?” The voice 
came from halfway beneath a pile of wires, vacuum tubes and 
other, less identifiable components of long-dead machines. 

“I have no idea, but I'll know when I find— aha!” Jonah 
extracted himself from the ruins of what looked to be a fusebox, 
a handful of wires dangling from his hand. “Bingo.” 

“Bingo? Looks like crap to me.” Katherine burrowed her 
way out of the mound of junk she'd been excavating. “What 
exactly are you going to do with those?” 

Jonah grinned like a bastard. “Fix a record player.” 

“A what? 


“A record player. My sire’s been bitching for 30 years that his 
gramophone doesn’t work anymore, and he’s thrown fatal tantrums 
any time someone tries to bring him something new. But with these, 
Tcan fix his antique and make him very, very happy.” He gave a bark 
of laughter. “And if he’s happy with me, odds are I'm going to be 
happy, too. Worth investing a couple of hours in. ajunkyard, isn’ tit?” 

With expertise in Scrounging, you can find unusual, 
outdated or otherwise hard-to-find items. Those items can 
range from the part needed to repair a Model T Ford to 
someone skilled at bibliomancy to a rare CD of which only 
500 copies were pressed. Scrounging also implies a knowledge 
of sources for oddball items, and a reasonable ability at 
turning junk into useful material. 

. Novice: Occasionally you can pluck something 
off the scrap heap. 
Practiced: You know where to look for hard-to- 
find items — and that includes some hard-to- 
find sources. 
Competent: You know if something can be 
found in under 24 hours. 
Expert: Youhave a network of potential sources 
foranything and everything you might need on 
short notice 
Master: You can find anything, at any time, 
assuming it still exists. 

Possessed By: Researchers, Fixers, Acquisitions Agents, 
Collectors, Hiring Factors 

Specialties: Manuscripts, Electronics and Parts, Talented 
Individuals, Illegal Items, Occult Items, Improvisational Fixes 
SeARCH 

The apartment was, to put it politely, a disaster. Everything 
breakable had been broken, including a couple of the plumbing 
fixtures. Blood was everywhere, from the linoleum floor of the 
kitchen to the warped wood of the windowsill. Overhead, a light 
fixture dangled crazily from a half-snapped chain; only two of the 
bulbs were working, as the rest had been smashed. 

Glass crunched underfoot as Anabelle sniffed the air and 
frowned. Behind her, her childe snorted in disapproval at the 
scene. “Looks like the Sabbat got to him first. Nothing here for 
us.” His tone clearly indicated that he was bored with the whole 
scene, and wanted simply to chalk the whole thing up as a loss. 

“Not quite. Everything we need is still here. If whoever did 
this — and I'm not so certain it was Sabbat — had found what 
they were looking for, they wouldn't have needed to wreck 
everything quite so thoroughly. I'll bet you a year off your 
apprenticeship that what we're looking for is still here.” 

Devin laughed. “A year? You're on.” He crossed his arms and 
looked smug, right until the time his sire picked up a photograph under 
a cracked pane. The picture showed a pair of beautiful women in 
1890s-style dress; one bore astriking resemblance to Annabelle herself. 
She neatly popped the remainder of the glass out, then removed the 
picture. Behind it on the matting was a folded piece of paper, yellowed 
with age. Anabelle held it up with a grin as her childe sputtered. 


The Gune TO Tat CaMARLLA 


68 


“Understanding sentiment was the key to understanding my 
dear, late friend. Now, Devin, about that extra year...” 


You have the ability to examine a person or scene and 
find what you need. Locating hidden compartments, uncov- 
ering wall safes and doping out smuggling techniques are all 
within your area of expertise. Search also covers both frisking 


techniques and more generalized searches, such as trying to 
uncover buried caches or bodies. 
Novice: Youcan spota bulge undera jacketand 
be reasonably sure what it is. 
Practiced: False bottoms and secret pockets 
can’t hide from you. 
Competent: Youcan find any concealed weapon 
in a matter of seconds. 
Expert: The proverbial needle in the haystack 
is no challenge for you. 
Master: Nothing short of the supernatural can 
be hidden from you. 
Possessed By: Border Guards, Cops, DEA Agents, Sher- 
iffs, Bodyguards 
Specialties: Body Searches, Search and Seizure, Vehicle 
Searches, Uncovering Evidence 
Other Possibilitie 
Public Speaking, Poetic Expression, Scan, Seduction, Sense 


Artistic Expression, Carousing, 


Deception and Swimming 


SHILLS 


ACROBATICS 

A lone clothesline was the only connection between the two 
tenements. Down in the alley below, someone big was moving 
around, knocking over trash cans and kicking in windows. Who 
exactly was down there, Shelby had no desire to find out, but odds 
were that it was one of the sheriff's bruisers 

She knelt down and pulled the clothesline taut. It was 3/ 
4" twine, hardly her favorite to work with, but with the 
sheriff's men doing a room-to-room search in the building 
behind her, she didn’t have a lot of options. With a quick 
prayer Shelby took out her knife and slammed it into the roof, 
then looped the rope around it in order to take up the slack 
Then, fingers crossed, she kicked off her shoes and stepped 
onto the rope. One step at a time, she told herself One step 
at a time. 

You can use your body to perform feats of flexibility that 
are beyond most individuals’ capabilities. You can tumble, 
swing, flip, balance and otherwise use your body to your best 
advantage. You may not be the most flexible Kindred in the 
world, but you use your body’s capabilities to their utmost 
. Novice: You can doa somersault without hurt- 

ing yourself or others. 
Practiced: Flips, rolls and other basic maneu- 
vers are within your range. 


Competent: You are good enough to amaze 
crowds or confound foes with your antics. 
Expert: You are capable of performing gymnas- 
tic maneuvers on any surface with whatever 
equipment is at hand. 
Master: You are an Olympic-caliber gymnast. 
Possessed By: Trapeze Artists, Contortionists, Ath- 
letes, Spies 


TTT 


Specialties: Circus Maneuvers, Contortions, Ducking 
and Covering, Combat Acrobatics, Tightrope Walking 


CAMOUFLAGE 

“Sonofabitch said the whole damn caravan pulled over here 
for the day, but we've got nothing. Nothing.” The annoyance in 
de la Vega's voice was palpable. “That’s the last time I trust that 
lying little turd of a Nosferatu.” He turned and kicked a rock. It 
skittered off into the underbrush at the side of the road with a 
barely audible clank. 

The sheriff of Chattanooga didn't hear, though, being too 
thoroughly preoccupied with his grumbling. He climbed back into 
his car, started the engine and roared off into the deepening gloom. 
The sound of his curses lingered in the air for a moment behind 
him, along with the scent of his car's exhaust. Then there was 
nothing but silence. 

Deeper within the underbrush, the interior of a well-con- 
cealed van exploded with muffled laughter. 

You can hide anything through proper application of 
this skill. You are an expert at disguising things through 
available (in other words, non-supernatural) means so that 
they are undetectable by normal methods. Whatever materi- 
als are at hand can be put to use hiding whatever you wish to 
conceal. Camouflage can be used in any locale; the effective- 
ness of the skill depends on what you wish to hide and what 
you have to work with. 

. Novice: You can hide candy well enough to 
smuggle it out of convenience stores. 
Practiced: You can use camouflage netting and 
other tools of the trade. 
Competent: You can hide a vehicle quickly 
and well with whatever's at hand. 
Expert: You can conceal anything from micro- 
fiche to military equipment. 
Master: With alittle preparation and the proper 
tools, you could hide the Great Wall. 

Possessed By: Smugglers, Nosferatu, Fences, Army Rang- 
ers, Freedom Fighters, Terrorists 

Specialties: Military Hardware, Vehicles, Hiding in Plain 
Sight, Urban Camouflage 


HUNTING 
“Look, this place really is too noisy for us to talk. You want to go 
someplace and get a cup of coffee? My treat.” Zander smiled his second- 
most winning smile, the one that said, “Trust me, I’m harmless.” 
His prey, a young woman in a black dress that she frankly 


didn't carry off very well, looked back nervously at her friends. 
They seemed split on the idea; half gave encouraging smiles while 
the rest looked worried. Her gaze flicked back and forth from her 
friends to Zander nervously. She leaned forward and said, as best 
as she could over the thumping music, “I’m not sure. I mean, 
would it be OK if my friends came along? Sheila drove, after all, 
and I’m not real good with directions.” 

“Of course. They can meet us out front,” Zander lied. 
Mentally, he gritted his teeth. Tonight's hunt was going to take a 
little longer than he thought. 

Hunting is the ability to find and bring down a target of 
any sort, on any terrain, for any purpose. With a proper 
application of Hunting, you can do anything from running 
down deer in the wild to picking a mortal out of the herd for 
purposes of feeding. This skill also includes manhunting, and 
can apply to the search for other Kindred 

Novice: You don’t need to club your prey over 
the head first. 

Practiced: Youcan find dinner with reasonable ease. 
Competent: Humans are easy to isolate and 
feed on. 

Expert: Once you decide on a target, it’s only a 
matter of time. 

Master: Human, animal or Kindred — none 
can escape you. 

Possessed By: Alastors, Hunters, Gangrel, Federal 
Agents, Survivalists, Scourges 

Specialties: Animals, Human Prey, The Chase, 
Manhunting, Cat and Mouse 

Other Possibilities: Animal Training, Artillery, Black- 
smith, Blind Fighting, Boat Handling, Brewing/Distilling, 
Bribery, Carpentry, Climbing, Cooking, Dancing, Debate, 
Escapology, Falconry, Fast-Draw, Fast-Talk, First Aid, Fish- 
ing, Forgery, Gambling, Game Playing, Gunsmithing, Heavy 
Weapons, Hypnotism, Jeweler, Journalism, Leatherworking, 
Lockpicking, Mechanical Repair, Parachuting, Photogra- 
phy, Pickpocket, Police Procedure, Pottery, Psychoanalysis, 
Scuba, Singing, Skiing, Speed Reading, and Tracking 


KNOWLEDGES 


CLAN KNOWLEDGE 

“What the bloody hell were they doing out there?” The 
Regent strode back and forth in a fury, gesticulating wildly with 
his silver-headed cane and nearly knocking any number of objets 
d'art off his mantelpiece in the process. 

“Making fun of us, obviously.” His secondin command, aquiet 
woman dressed severe!y in a business suit, folded her hands primly in 
her lap and seemed oblivious to the very real threat of being 
accidentally whacked with the cane. “I’m told they do that from time 
to time. Next week, presumably, it will be the Ventrue’s tum.” 

“I don’t care what they're doing, Richards!” the Regent 
roared. “I want to know how the hell they learned so much about 
us! Everything we do was on display out there!” 


The GUDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


1 


The woman shrugged. “So it was. And in seven nights, 
everything about the Ventrue will be on display as well. Now are 
‘you going to continue to waste both our time with this pointless 
tantrum, or are you going to assign someone to observe?” 

You have knowledge about a particular clan of vampires 
that no outsider should possess. You are aware of the clan’s 
practices, rituals and secrets, and can put that knowledge to 
good use. However, members of the clan in question may not 
like the fact that an outsider has a handle on proprietary 
information, and may act to plug any such security leaks. 

Note: This knowledge only grants information about 
one particular clan. Clan Knowledge must be purchased 
separately for each clan of expertise. 

Novice: You can spot a member of the clan 
with reasonably accuracy. 

Practiced: You know how the clan is setup, and 
can separate myth from fact. 

Competent: Most of the clan’s basic layout and 
procedure is known to you. 

Expert: Youknow theclan’ssecretsas well asanyone. 
Master: You know more about the clan than 
most of its members do. 

Possessed By: Kindred, Hunters, Ambitious Ghouls, 
Arcanum Scholars 

Specialties: Power Structure, Chain of Command, Se- 
crets, Movers and Shakers 


Computer HACKING 

Bobby leaned back in his chair, hands clasped behind his 
head, and grinned the grin of the righteous geek. “Ladies and 
gentlemen, may I present to you everything you ever wanted to 
know about where Horatio’s banks have been putting our money. 
1 figure we've got about five minutes before the system security 
boots us out on our collective ass, but in the meantime I've taken 
the liberty of doing screen shots of everything here. You'll be able 
to print those out and look at them at your leisure.” 

Various Kindred crowded around Bobby, trying to get a look 
at his 21” monitor and jabbering among themselves. Several 
offered him congratulations; he just looked bashful 

Truth be told, this was his fifth time into Ballard’s banks, and 
at this point Bobby was reasonably certain he could turn them 
upside down and shake every last penny out of them, if he so 
desired. But he'd keep that little tidbit to himself. Once you started 
doing miracles, people expected you to be able to perform them on 
command, and he'd rather not deal with the pressure. 

You can use your computer to insert your virtual presence 
into systems where you don’t belong. With this knowledge, you 
can crack computer security and some forms of encryption and 
otherwise perform feats of data piracy and sabotage that would win 
the approbation of other hackers as well as an arrest warrant from 
the FBI. Best of all, you can do this while covering your tracks. 

Novice: You can guess others’ passwords. 
Practiced: You know all of the basic back doors 
to popular operating systems. 


Competent: You know how to get yourself root 
access on a fair number of systems. 
Expert: Youcan find security loopholesand exploit 
them within days of a software package's release. 
Master: You can cut through military security 
or tap into Wall Street. 
Possessed By: Hackers, NSA Agents, Phone Phreaks, 
Security Specialists 
Specialties: Phone Phreaking, Military Security, 
Financials, Viruses, Encryption, Password Theft, Back Doors 


Economics 

“What are you doing?” Bailey gazed uncomprehendingly at 
the numbers flashing by on his childe’s screen. They seemed to be 
moving at arapid pace, while she thrummed her fingers on the desk 
and made “harrumphing” noises. 

“Running a simulation.” 

“Thank you,” he said icily. “That answer was technically 
correct and told me absolutely nothing. Now suppose for a 
moment you show your sire a little respect, look away from that 
infernal machine of yours and tell me what exactly you are 
running a simulation of.” 

Nicole swiveled her chair to face her sire. (She did not, 
however, stop drumming her fingers on the desk, a fact which he 
made a mental note of.) “I'm doing projections as to the effects 
of bank collapses on certain nations that have been borrowing 
liberally. Specifically, I'm working out exactly how many finan- 
cial institutions we're going to have to kick over in order to 
eviscerate what's left of the East Asian economy.” 

Bailey raised an eyebrow. “Is that all?” 

The younger vampire shrugged. “More or less. It’s a project 
I’ve been working on for a while. Everyone needs a hobby.” 

Economics is the study of how money moves and its 
effects. You can predict, with reasonable accuracy, financial 
trends and patterns, and you have a leg up on others in matters 
of investment. You are well-aware of the effects of the Kindred 
onworld markets, and can estimate what sort of effects vampiric 
dabblings can have on whole industries or nations. 

. Novice: You have a notion of what a capitalist 
economy is. 
Practiced: You know that “the invisible hand” 
isn’t part of an Obfuscated Nosferatu. 
Competent: The Financial News Network 
makes sense to you. 
Expert: You can spot trends and accurately 
predict recessions with ease. 
Master: You know how the world economy 
works — all of it. 

Possessed By: Economists, Brokers, Financial Advisors, 
Ventrue, Corporate Raiders 

Specialties: Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Game 
Theory, High Finance, Investment 


FROM THE BeGNNiNc:CHaRacTER CREATION 


1 


History 

“Aha, here's something good.” McLoughlin motioned Dierdre 
over to his desk. “Read this and tell me what you think.” 

Dierdre took the photocopy from McLouglin’s hands and 
read, “‘And after the burning the hill was cursed. Nothing would 
grow there, and sheep that wandered onto it soon took sick and 
died.’ Interesting. Where'd you dig it up?” 

McLoughlin took the paper back. “Irish National Folklore 
Archives. They've spent a fortune recording oral history and 
folklore. You only get a few stories like this, though, widely 
scattered over the island. Thoughts?” 

His partner frowned. “Well, if I didn’t know better I'd say 
we were dealing with some Tremere problem or other, but as is, 
T'I have to go with an unpleasant elder taking a dirt nap.” 

“Right in one.” McLoughlin grinned. “Want to go do some 
field research? Bring the mason jars.” 

You are familiar with the record of events, mortal and 
immortal. You can place events in historical context, and 
even detect Kindred influence on the stream of mortal 
history. Your expertise may well allow you to uncover 
evidence of vampiric activity, ranging from resting places of 
elders to evidence of specific individuals’ involvement in 
affairs. 

. Novice: You know the basics of history without 
knowing many of the specifics. 
Practiced: You can pick out historical errorson 
television programs and in movies. 
Competent: You have a solid grasp on the field, 
and have specialized in a particular area. 
Expert: You are a recognized expert in the field; 
grad students footnote your works. 
Master: All of the past is an open book to you. 

Possessed By: Historians, Elders, Documentary Film- 
makers, Academics, Recreationists 

Specialties: Military History, Social History, National 
or Ethnic Histories, Kindred History 


PsycHoLtocy 

“So tell me,” Helton managed in between gales of laughter, 
“about your sire.” Around him, the rest of the coterie collapsed 
in helpless hilarity. Jonesie seemed unimpressed by the display 
He glanced from vampire to vampire, dismissing each in tum. 

“Well,” he said, “my sire had a pathological fear of sunlight, 
to the point of needing to look out the window every half-hour to 
make sure the Earth hadn't somehow mysteriously speeded up in 
its rotation and brought morning on early. He also recognized that 
he had a problem, and dutifully sought help for it — with my 
encouragement, of course.” 

The others more or less subsided into snickering. Helton 
looked up at Jonesie with a smirk. “So what happened to him?” 

Jonesie shrugged. “Well, with my help he was finally able to beat 
his little problem and stop worrying about dawn. In fact, he succeeded 
so well that he decided to take a little stroll one moming — also with 
my encouragement — without checking the time before he left. Pity 


that the door to the haven got locked behind him, don’t you think?” 

And suddenly, Jonesie was the only one laughing. 

You have a knowledge of psychology in both theory 
and practice. You are familiar with psychological ap- 
proaches, counseling techniques and so on. You are also 
conversant with the pathology of the mind, and can make 
a diagnosis of a subject’s dysfunction given sufficient time 
to observe him. 

. Novice: You've read the classics of the field. 
Practiced: You can separate what Freud actu- 
ally said from what people think Freud said. 
Competent: You could set up a practice and do 
reasonably well with it. 

Expert: You are an expert on psychological 
theory — and know when and how to apply it. 
Master: You can understand others’ thought 
patterns, motivations and Psychological Flaws 
from just a few short conversations. 

Possessed By: Psychiatrists, Psychologists, Counselors, 
Social Workers, Marketing Executives, Empowerment Gurus 

Specialties: Freudian, Jungian, Lacanian, Pop Psy- 
chology, Neuropsychology, Psychopathology, Mob 
Psychology 

Other Possibilities: Accounting, Alchemy, Anthropol- 
ogy, Archaeology, Architecture, Art History, Astrology, 
Astronomy, Biology, Chemistry, Criminology, Electronics, 
Engineering, Faerie Lore, Forensics, Geology, Heraldry, Kin- 
dred Lore, Literature, Lupine Lore, Mage Lore, Metallurgy, 
Meteorology, Military Science, Naturalist, Physics, Sprit 
Lore, Theology, Toxicology and Wyrm Lore 


MUuNCHKINS AND MINMAx 

Sad to say, Merits and Flaws are one of the favorite 
tools of players more interested racking up kills than in 
roleplaying. Such players often load up on Flaws they 
never have any intention of roleplaying, then use the 
freebies garnered thus to load up on killer Merits, addi- 
tional Disciplines, and Backgrounds like Generation. Such 
abuses of the system can lead to severely unbalanced 
coteries, not to mention lopsided and unenjoyable games. 

Storytellers have every right to disallow particular Mer- 
its and Flaws, orany combinations thereof. Merits and Flaws 
are optional, not mandatory, and no character has a God- 
given right to a Dark Fate that he'll whine endlessly about 
accepting. It is also incumbent on the Storyteller to make 
certain that his troupe plays out their characters’ Flaws. After 
a few warnings, it is not beyond the bounds of acceptable 
behavior (or good Storytelling) to strip an unrepentant 
player's character of points gained through a Flaw the charac- 
ter is ignoring. The system of Merits and Flaws is all about 
balance; ifa player attempts to upset that balance, it is up to 
the Storyteller to enforce it for the good of the game. 


The Gude 10 THE CaMARLLA 


n 


MERITSAND FLAWS 


The basic character creation process for Vampire: The 
Masquerade allows you to draw the broad strokes of your 
character —clan, generation, Attributes and so on. Merits and 
Flaws, however, allow you to sketch in finer details of your 
character's capabilities and history within the bounds of the 
Storyteller system's rules. With Merits and Flaws, you can give 
a character abilities — or weaknesses — not otherwise covered. 

Merits are, unsurprisingly, bonus abilities, knacks, tal- 
ents, contacts and other pluses that a character might have. 
Flaws are the exact opposite — weaknesses and liabilities, 
whether they be psychological, physical, social or even ma 
cal. A Merit can cost between one and seven freebie points 
at the end of character creation, while a Flaw can grant 
additional freebies in the same range. Characters should 
never have more than seven points in either Merits or Flaws, 
and all proposed Traits taken in this fashion are subject to 
Storyteller approval. 


Specirics 

There are some Merits and Flaws that are unique to 
Camarilla vampires. These Traits are mainly social ones, 
pertaining to personal status and history within the sect, but 
there are some physical, magical and psychological manifes- 


tations that only (or mainly) appear in the Camarilla as 
well. The Merits and Flaws listed below are intended for 
Camarilla (or in limited cases, ex-Camarilla vampires) 
alone; Merits like Primogen Friendship (p. 76) generally 
don't make much sense for Sabbat or independent vam- 
pires. By the same token, a Flaw relating to a weakness for 
the Viniculum generally doesn't make sense for a law- 
abiding Ventrue neonate. There are always exceptions (say, 
a Camarilla vampire who's attempting to go undercover 
with the local Sabbat pack), but common sense should be 
the ultimate guideline. 


CHOOSING WISELY 

Merits and Flaws are part of the last step of the character 
creation process, the spending of “freebie points.” The 
should be taken as a sort of icing on the cake, rather than as 
the main thrust of the character's persona. When you select 
Merits and Flaws (if you do indeed select them), try to keep 
your character's history and sense of selfin mind. Ifacharacter’s 
backstory includes the facts that he had a horrifying Embrace 
and was mistreated by his sire, the Flaw Nightmares makes 
sense; if he was a ghoul trained for decades to take his place 
in the Camarilla, the Flaw loses its justification. Similarly, if 
you're going toruna rabble-rousing Brujah, picking the Merit 
Sheriff's Friend makes no sense. 

Merits and Flaws are, in the end, optional. There's no 
shame or weakness in creating a character who has none, nor 
is a character without Merits or extra freebies from Flaws 
necessarily at a disadvantage. 


With that in mind, below are listed Meritsand Flaws that are 
appropriate for Camarilla characters. Storytellers should feel free 
todisallow, modify or ignore any of these as their games demand. 


PHYSICAL 


Traits that are designated Physical Merits and Flaws 
relate to a character’s strength, speed, toughness and form. 


Bruiser (lpr. Merr) 

Your appearance is sufficiently thuglike to inspire fear or at 
Teast disquiet in tices who see you: While you'te noe necessarily 
úgy pier sé; yodo radian a sart Ob Guile nenic ike pot 
vibra people’ tioi thie Beet to ayoli pasilip near yon Yarar 
at -1 difficulty on all Intimidation rolls against those who have 
not demonstrated their physical superiority to you. 


FrienpLy Face (lpt. Merr) 

You have a face that reminds everyone of someone, to 
the point where strangers are inclined to be well-inclined 
toward you because of it. The effect doesn’t fade if you explain 
the “mistake,” leaving you at -1 difficulty on all appropriate 
Social-based rolls (yes for Seduction, no for Intimidation, for 
example) when a stranger is involved. This Merit only 
functions on a first meetin 


Twrtcn (lpr. Fraw) 

You have some sort of repetitive motion that you make 
in Giese Cfatressand is adead gtvenwayastn yourklent: 
Examples include a nervous cough, constantly wringing your 
hands, cracking your knuckles and so on. It costs one Will- 
power orekan fom engaging in your twitch: 


Duttep Brie (2 pt. Flaw) 

For some reason your fangs never developed fully — they 
maynothave manifested arall, When feeding, youneed tofind 
some other method of making the blood flow. Failing chat, you 
must achieve double the normal number of successes in order 
to make your bite penetrate properly. A number of Caitiff and 
high-generation vampires often manifese this Flaw. 


Open Wounn (2-4pt. Flaw) 

You have one or more wounds that refuse to heal, and which 
constantly drip blood. This slow leakage costs you an extra blood 
point per evening (marked off just before dawn), in addition to 
drawing attention to you. If the wound is visible, you are at +1 
difficulty for all Social-based rolls. For two points, the Flaw is 
simply unsightly and has the basic effect mentioned above; for 
fourpoints the seeping wound isserious ordisfiguringand includes 
the effects of the Flaw Permanent Wound (Vampire, page 297). 


PeRMANENT FANGS (3pt.Fraw) 

Your fangs do not retract, making it impossible for you to 
hide your true nature. While some mortals may think you've 
had your teeth filed or are wearing prosthetics, sooner or later 
you're going to run into someone who knows what you truly 
are. You are a constant threat to the Masquerade, and other 


FROM THE BEGINNING:CHARACTER CREATION 


B 


Kindred may take steps to prevent a breach from ever occur- 
ring. Youare also limited to an Appearance rating of 3 at most. 


Growing Eves (3 pt. Flaw) 

You ‘have: the stereotypical glawing/ eyes ob vannie 
legend which gives you x+]. difficulty on Intimidation rolls 
when you're dealing with mortals. However, the tradeoffs are 
any you preta walking: fear m the Mesqueade'acd mune 
constantly disguise your condition (no, contacts don’t cut it); 
the glow impairs your vision and puts you at +1 difficulty on 
all sight-based rolls (including the use of ranged weapons); 
and the radiance emanating from your eye sockets makes it 
difficult to hide (+2 difficulty to Stealth rolls) in the dark. 


MENTAL 


Mental Merits and Flaws help define a character's men- 
tal capabilities, strength of mind, native wit and intelligence. 
Mental Merits and Flaws have nothing todo witha character's 
state of mind. Rather, they detail what a character can do 
with her mind instead. 


Copy Loaicat (lpt. Merr) 

Wite ione mige reken jonaa “cold AGH? you havea 
(se: EEEE DETE STEE E sae 
cal coloration. You may or may not be emotional yourself, but 
you can see clearly when others are clouding the facts with their 
feelings (21 difficulty on all Sense Deception and related rolls). 


Userut KNowrence (lpr. Merit) 

You have expertise in a specific field that makes your 
conversation intriguing to an older Kindred. So long as your 
knowledge holds the other vampire’ 
interest in keeping you around. Then again, once he’s pumped 
you for every iota of information you possess, that patronage may 
suddenly vanish. (Note: This Merit should be played like a 1-dot 
Mentor with a specific interest. However, unlike a Mentor, 
Useful Knowledge does not imply a permanent relationship.) 


attention, he has a vested 


Computer Aptitune (2pt. Merit) 

You are familiar with and talented in the uses of com- 
puter equipment. Other Kindred may not understand 
computers, but to you they are intuitive. All rolls involving 
computers are at -2 difficulty for you. 


Precocious (3 pr. Merit) 

You leain quickly. The time for you to pick up a particu- 
lar Ability (or Abilities, at Storyteller discretion) is cut in 
half, as is the experience cost. 


Impatient (lpr. FLAW) 

‘You baveno patience forseaniling wind ae 
want to do things now, and the Devil take the hindmost. Every 
time yotare forced to waitaround instead ofecting. aSelf Consol 
roll is required to see if you go haring off on your own instead. 


Unconvincep (lpt. FLAw) 
You fail to see the need for the Masquerade, and have 
gone on record as saying so. Taking your stand has made you 


suspect in the eyes of your elders, and may have attracted the 
Sabbat’s attention as well. 


Stereotype (2 pr. FLAw) 

Youbuy heavily intoall of the vampire legendry you've read 
and heard: Youweara cape, speak with an accent and otherwise 
act inacartoonish fashion. Such behavior is embarrassing in the 
extreme tpocherkindred; who arelikaly toostracie oemoccvau 
(+2 difficulty to Social rolls with other vampires who don’tshare 
your habits). Also, you stand out to hunters, and run the risk of 
violating the Masquerade every time you take to the streets, 


THIRST For Innocence (2pt. FLAW) 

The sight of innocence — of any sort — arouses in you 
a terrible bloodlust. Roll Self-Control, or else frenzy and 
attack the source of your hunger. 


Victim of THE Masquerane (2pt. FLAW) 
‘The Camarilla’s propaganda machine did too good a job 
on you. Even after your Embrace you refused to believe you 
were a vampire. You remain convinced that there is some 
logical explanation for your condition, and spend as much 
time as you can searching for it. You also have: problems 
feeding, and may insist on trying to eat regular food. None of 
these habits makes you particularly pleasant company for 
other Kindred. This Flaw must be roleplayed at all times. 


Gumt-Wracxwen (4pt. Flaw) 

Yousimply cannot come to grips with the fact that you must 
drink blood to survive. You suffer horrible guilt over each time 
you feed (roll Conscience, difficulty 7, or else frenzy every time 
you feed) and try to avoid doing so as much as possible. This 
means that you rarely have much blood in your system, leaving 
you vulnerable to both attacks and hunger-based frenzies. 


SOCIAL 

Merits and Flaws under this heading relate to a vampire’s 
social dealings. Relations within the sect and with the Kindred at 
large are covered by this category. Note that there are more Social 
Merits and Flaws listed here than there are of any other category; 
the intrinsically social nature of the Camarilla mandates such. 


Erysium Recurar (lpr. Merit) 

You spend an unusual amount of time at the various 
Elysiums in your city. You see and are seen to such an extent that 
allofthe moversand shakers of Elysium at least know who youare. 
Extended time spent in Elysium also gives you extended oppor- 
tunities to interact with the harpies and other Kindred of that 
stature —and they'll know your name when you approach them. 


Former Guout (lpr. Merit) 

You were introduced to the Blood long before you were made 
kiida Your long ezpalen as ghoul gives fou KEINO 
anil combirk with vamplic oon ne a Aona 
Social rolls when in the presence of other neonates (particularly 
those who haven't been educated by their sires), and have a 
standing-1 difficulty on rolls relating toknowledge of the Kindred. 


The GUDE 10 THe CAMARLLA 


14 


Ow a 


y 


{fil} 
pan utanan 
I ii 
Mi O ANNM 
\ LAK N | 
peN 


WLLL 
MAR A 
p pipl 


Iih 


Harm ess (lpr. Merr) 

Everyone in the city knows you, and knows that you're 
no threat to their plans. While that sort of estimation may 
seem insulting, it’s also what’s kept you from being killed. No 
one considers you worth their time to deal with, and that low 
opinion keeps you safe. If you start acting in a way that 
demonstrates that you are no longer harmless, others’ reac- 
tions to you will likely change as a result. 


ProtécE (lpr. Merr) 

Your sire watched you for some time before Embracing 
yon did apake glavingly of you ey sequatneaices: ‘The 
vampires may be inclined to look favorably on you by dint of 
your sire’s recommendation; you are at -1 difficulty on Social 
rolls with all those who've heard good things about you. 


Rep (lpr. Merit) 

Your fame has exceeded the bounds of your sect. Everyone 
knows who you are what: you've done and what yarr te supposed 
tohavedone (which mightnot be thesme thing). The publicity 
can be good or bad; what matters is that everybody knows your 
name. Whether individuals outside of yourimmediate social circle 
Iknewenoughto mitich yourlace ts qournmmnetia diferentes 


Sappat SURVIVOR (lpr. Merit) 

You've lived through at least one Sabbat attack and/or 
attenipred recruitmene. Your experience helps youaneicipate 
situations where you might potentially be endangered by the 


Uy 


‘ae 


Sabbat once again. You are at -1 difficulty on all Perception 
rolls when it comes to Sabbat-based matters. This Merit 
comes into play most frequently as a means of avoiding 
ambushes and the like 


Boon (l-Opt. Merit) 

Someone owes youa favor. The vampire in your debt might 
be the lowliest neonate in the city or might be the prince herself; 
itall dependson how many points the Merircosts: Youonly hai 
that single favor owed you (unless you take the Merit multiple 
times), so using it properly is of paramount importance. Depend- 
ingon status and other factots, the vampire whaGwes yous favor 
may well resent his debt, and might go out of his way to “settle” 
it early —even going so far as to create situations from which he 
must “rescue” you and thus clear the slate. 


Buttvnoy (2pt. Merit) 

You're part of the brute squad the local sheriff calls on 
when he needs some muscle. As a result, you get in on action 
that others miss entirely, score points with those in power, 
and occasionally get a chance to act outside of the law. How 
far outside the law the sheriff is willing to let you go depends 
on circumstance and how much the sheriff likes you. 


Orp Pat (2pr. Mert) 
Anacquaintance from your breathing days was Embraced at 


the same time you were. Fortunately, your friendship has endured 
even death and unlife, and you find a constant source of support 


FROM THE BEGINNING:CHARACTER CREATION 


5 


andaid in your old friend. She expects the same of you, which isn’t 

always convenient, but at least you each have someone to hang 

‘onto who remembers the good old nights — and days. 
Storyteller Note: An Old Palshouldbeplayedasavery loyal Ally. 


Open Roan (2pt. Merit) 

Unlike many Kindred, you like to travel. You have a solid 
knowledge of safe travel routes and methodologies, not to mention 
haven space available in any number of destinations. Unless 
someone out there knows your exact route and is specifically 
lookingfor you, youcan move between cities unimpeded by random, 
encounters sith Lintnies, oversealous wees noopen the lig 


ScHOLAR OF Enemies (2 pt. Merit) 

You have taken the time to learn about and specialize in 
one particular enemy of the Camarilla. You are awaréofatleast 
some of the group’s customs, strategies, abilities and long-term 
goals, and can put that knowledge to good use; This Merit is 
worth a -2 difficulty for all rolls pertaining specifically to the 
subject of your specialization. On the otherhand, you are’at a 
+1 difficulty when it comes to dealing with other enemies, 
simply because you're so thoroughly focused on your field. 


ScHOLAR OF OTHERS (2 pt. Mert) 

This Merit functions identically to Scholar of Enemies, 
except that it applies to a group, that is not/mecessarily 
inimical to the Camarilla. 


Suerire’s FRIEND (2 pt. Merit) 

For whatever reason (maybe yourwinning salle or perhaps 
just your superb grovelling technique), the locafhead lawman 
likes you. He’s inclined to overlook your minor trespasses and let 
you in on things you're not supposed to know about. He even 
gives you warnings about occasional crackdowns and times 
when the prince isn’t feeling generous. Of course, abusing this 
connection might well turn a friendly sheriff into an enemy — 
and the change might not be apparent until it’s too late. 


Domain (2-4 pt. Merit) 

The prince has given you exclusive rights to a piece of 
territory. The size and importance of that territory are in direct 
proportion to the cost of the Merit. A few blocks’ worth of 
rowhouses might be worth two points, while four square blocks 
in the city’s financial district could be worth four. 

While the rights to this territory are yours, there are 
responsibilities that come along with it. If those responsibili- 
ties are not met, the prince may well strip you of your holding. 


ALTERNATE Ipentity (3 pt. Merit) 

In addition to your normal identity, you've taken up an 
alternate role that allows you to run with another group or sect 
of vampires. Thisother selfhasa believable history and backstory 
that can stand up to at least cursory checks, and he is accepted 
at face value (more or less) by his associates. However, your sire, 
Allies, Contacts, etc. don’t know that you maintain this second 
identity, and treat this “stranger” accordingly. 


FRIEND OF THE UNDERGROUND (3 pt. Merit) 

While you're not a Nosferatu, you know your way around 
the sewers, tunnels, ducts, subway tubes and other subterranean 
passages of your home town. The local Nosferatu (and any other 
creauures dwelling down in the muck) may not actually like you, 
butthey're not inclined to kill you on sight when they see you in 
theirterritory. Youare at -1 difficulty on all Sewer Lore rolls, and 
anyrolls involving the subterranean world (sneaking from place 
to place underground, finding routes into sub-basements and so 
on). Nosferatu cannot'purchase this Merit. 


More(3pr.Merr) 

You have an informer buried in the Sabbat (or, less likely, 
‘one of the independent clans or the Anarch Free States) who 
nation as to what her peers are up 
(o Whatyou dowith theinformation is up to you, but abusing 
the knowledge might be agood way to get your informer killed. 
‘The other side has spies too, you know.... 


Riso Star (3-pt. Merit) 

You're one of the up and comers in your city, a rising star 
in the Camarilla’s firmament. Everyone wants to know you 
and be your friend, even as those in power groom you for 
Positions ohigher responsibility. You are at -1 difficulty on 
all Social rolls against any Camarilla vampires who aren’t 
actively opposing your ascent. 


Horper oF Orrice (3-5 pt. Merit) 

You currently hold one of the official Camarilla posi- 
ons in yourcity. The degree of power you possess depends on 
the cost of the Merit. 


CLAN Frienpsuip (4pt. Merit) 

Orie parcicalae clan trot your awa) has apesing 
you. You might have done the clan as a whole a favor at some 
point, or perhaps you're just a loud voice in support of their aims. 
Whatever the case, you're at -2 difficulty on all Social rolls 
involving members of the clan in question. Of course, the 
reaction yourcory.relationshin with anoxherclar i likely tormw 
from your own clan leaders isan entirely different can of worms: 


Broken Bonn (4pt. Merit) 

You were once blood bound but have have secretly 
slipped the leash, arid youare free to actas you willoncemore: 
Your regnant has no idea that you are not in fact bound, and 
continues to treat you as if you were. At Storyteller discre- 
tion, the experience of having been bound once mäy render 
you tiamune ro ever being enthralled again. 


Primocen Frienpsuip (4pt. Merit) 

The ruling council of the city values you and your 
opinions. You are called in to consult on decisions, and your 
recommendations carry great weight. Your position may not 
be an official one, but it’s powerful nonetheless. 


Harpy (5pt. Merit) 


You count yourself among the harpies, the vampires who 
tule the roost in Elysium. Yours is one of the voices that mock, 


The GUDE TO Tat CaMARLLA 


16 


exalt, praise or humble the Kindred of the city. Your opinion is 
very influential, which means that you're going to face all sorts of 
attempts — from bribes to threats — to change it. You are at -1 
difficulty on all Social rolls when acting in your official capacity. 


Privocen (7pt. Merr) 

You are part of the ruling coterie of vampires in the city 
ii Whiah youresideSourvoice leoneot thefewro which the 
prince must listen, and you have tremendous influence in 
your clan: On the other hand, thereareabwaysothersplocing 
to take your place, making your position a precarious one. 


BOTCHED PRESENTATION (lpr. FLAW) 

‘When yoursire presented you tothe prince of the city, you fibbed 
ie Nijole convinced His Majesty hanes yoo (whether bë does or 
not). Youneed tosucceed ona Willpower roll (difficulty 7) just tostand 
infrontoftheprinceoroneofhisdulyauthorized representatives without 
running, blubbeing or otherwise meling 4 fool of youre 


Expenpane (lpr. FLAW) 

Someone in power doesn’t want you around. Maybe she 
wants territory you possess, or is jealous of the attention 
you're getting from a prize mortal retainer — the details are 
irrelevant. What does matter is that she has the power to 
maneuver you into dangerous situations “for the good of the 
Camarilla,” and has no compunctions about doing so. 


INCOMPLETE UNDERSTANDING (lpr. FLAW) 
The whole matter has been explained to you, but you’re 
still not quite sure how this whole Camarilla/Masquerade 
thing works. Your imperfect understanding of the rules and 
regulations of your new existence means that sooner or later, 
you're going to make a mistake. It’s only a matter of time 


New Arrivat (lpr. FLAw) 

You've just arrived in your new city of residence, and 
have done so without knowing anyone in the place. Existing 
factions may try to recruit or eliminate you, while the harpies 
size you up and take your measure. Meanwhile, your igno- 
rance of the city’s current events, history and politics (not to 
mention the personality quirks of the vampires already in 
place) may cause you to make'a serious blunder. 


New Hin (lpt. FLaw) 

You're the latest Embracee in the city, and everyone knows 
it. That automatically puts you at the bottom of the social totem 
pole. Other neonates take every opportunity to demonstrate your 
inferiority to you, proving that the dynamics of the schoolyard are 
alive and well in the Camarilla. Even if someone else is added to 
the ranks of the unliving, you’restill regarded assomethingasabit 
of a geek by your peers — a distinction that can have dangerous 
consequences if bullets start flying. All Social-related rolls are at 
+1 difficulty when you are dealing with other neonates. 


Recrurment Tarcet (lpr. FLAW) 

‘The Sabbat wants yeu; and they; want you bad Every 
effort is being made to recruit you, willing or no, and the press 
gangs usually show urvar the worst possible-time. 


SyMpaTHizer (lpr. Fraw) 

You have publicly expressed sympathy for some of the 
Sabbat’s goals and policies. Your outspoken views on the 
Subject have made you suspect in she eyes of the city’s hiera 
chy, and you may be suspected of (or arrested for) treason. 


Bounp (2pt. Fraw) 

Youare blood bound toanother vampire. Yourregnant may 
notnecessarily treat you badly, but the fact remains that your will 
is not entirely your own. The knowledge gnaws at you, even as 
you find yourself lost in-devotion:ta your vampiric master, 


Catspaw (2 pt. FLAw) 

You've done dirty work for someone high up in the city's 
hierarchy in the past —the sheriff, the primogen or even the 
prince. However, instead of granting you favor, your deeds 
have made you an embarrassment or a liability. For the 
moment, your former employer's concern is to keep you quiet. 
In the long term, it’s to get rid of you. 


Escapep Tarcet (2pt. Flaw) 

The flip side of Rival Sires, Escaped Target means that you 
had targeted a mortal for the Embrace, but someone else got 
there first. You cannot stand the humiliation of being cheated of 
your prize, and fly into a rage (+2 difficulty to avoid frenzy) 
whenever you see the one who got away. This hatred may lead 
you into other irrational behaviors, like Embracing enemies of 
the neonate, creating unauthorized childer or even trying to kill 
your rival. Furthermore, your petty and irrational behavior is 
well-known and quite noticeable, and as a result you are at +1 
difficulty on all Charisma rolls until the situation is resolved. 


Farture (2pt. FLAw) 

You once held title in the city, but failed catastrophically 
in your duties. Now youare branded incompetent, excluded from 
circles of power and responsibility and generally ostracized by 
those on their way up. Your exclusion may make you a target for 
recruitment by the Sabbat (or so the whispers run, making you 
even more distrusted). Conversely, the consequences of your 
error —a breach of the Masquerade, an unauthorized Embrace, 
alawbreakerallowed to escape — might come back to haunt you. 


MasQuerane BREAKER (2pt. FLAW) 

In your first nights as a member of the Kindred, you 
accidentally broke the Masquerade — and were spotted doing 
so. Someone else covered for your mistake, but holds the favor 
over you. Now you exist in fear that your error will be revealed. 
In the meantime, your “savior” takes pitiless advantage of you. 


OLp Frame (2pt. FLaw) 

Sincone-you yocsicared deeply be lebar yirdi 
enemy. He still arrempes to play on your sympathies orala 
mes sake® while. working seainsyous Untess you succeed 
on a.contested Manipulation + Expression roll against your 
former friend, you do not act against him unless the situation 
becuinies life-threatening: 


From THE BEGINNING: CHARACTER CREATION 


71 


Riva Sires (2 pt. FLaw) 

Not one; boe ewe svamytres/wanead (eo ett you ‘withathe: 
tibrace One succeeded! one balled —andshe’snothappyabput 
thatfailure. Either you, youractual sire orboth of you have become 
the target of the failed suitor’s ire. Regardless, your persecutor is at 
+2 difficulty to refrain from frenzy in your presence. In addition, 
she may well be working actively to discredit or destroy you. 


Upprry (2pt. FLaw) 

‘Yoularerpracd ohvou nessen sid aia grou 
that youve shot your mouth off to other Kindred sand made 
isine nei les Wiser-vampites laugh ‘at you and chalk:your 
fideiskes op to youth, bac athen ar you esanoenic and 
insulting. These enemies will take action to embarrass or 
harm you. Furthermore, you are at +2 difficulty on all Social 
rolls against any vampires you have alienated through your 
yammering — and you may not know who they are. 

At Storyteller discretion, you may also be required to 
make a Willpower roll (difficulty 6) to keep your mouth shut 
any fime the opporturiity presents iteelf for youto bragabout 
sour lineages yourclan.or your status 


DIsGRACt TO THE BLOOD (3 pt. FLAW) 

Your sive regards/che fact that he Bmbraced yout bea 
titanic mistake, and has let everyone know it. You are mocked 
i Elystan tain Ged by. your peenvand watively desgit bythe 
one who should be giving you guidance. Any request or 
petidion you make t likely to be'looked dowi/upon by friends 
of yourdiré, and your’ichieveinenti are likely to be discounted. 


Former Prince (3 pt. FLAw) 

Once, you held near-absolute power in a city, but those 
nights are gone now. Perhaps you stepped down, perhaps you 
were deno or pertiane pour city fell oo the Suber tc: marcecs 
little in your reduced state. What does matter is that the prince 
in the city where you now dwell is aware of your prior employ- 
ment/and hes-concerne-that poumight be n oao make 
comeback. The machinery of the Camarilla in the city where 
younow make your home is subtly stacked against you, and ifthe 
prince sees an opportunity to get rid of you he just might take it. 


Huntep Linea Doc (3 pt. FLAw) 

Another sect or groupof vampires —be itan independent 
clan or the Sabbatas a whole —has decided that you're a target 
for extermination, and pursues you relentlessly. On the bright 
side, the enemies of your enemy may well wish to help you out, 
potentially garnering you allies in this one instance. 


Narc (3pt.FLAw) 

You are known to be a snitch, an informer firmly planted 
in the sheriffs pocket. Those on whom you might yet inform 
loathe you as a result, feeding you misinformation when they 
can inan attempt to discredit you. Given the opportunity, they 
might do you mischief. Regardless, your reputation as a full- 
fledged weasel precedes you, putting you at +1 difficulty on all 
Social rolls against those who don't agree with your politics. 


SLeepinc WrrH THE Enemy (3 pt. FLAW) 

You have some sort of intimate connection with a 
member of an opposing sect or inimical clan. You may have 
a lover, a childe, a friend or a contact working the other side 
of the fence, but regardless of politics you retain a friendly (or 
more than friendly) relationship with your putative foe. Your 
close ties to someone on the other side would be regarded as 
treason by your superiors within the Camarilla, and if you are 
discovered the penalty will surely be death. 


Cran Ennrty (4pt. Flaw) 

One clan in particular: wants you dead: You have of- 
fended the entire clan, from elders to neonates, and asa result 
every member of that bloodline wants your head on a plate. 
The effects of the Flaw may manifest as anything from very 
publicsnubs and insults to actual attempts on your existeiice. 
You are also dt +2 difficulty-on all’Social‘rolls relating’ to 
members of the clan in question. 


Loatusome ReGnant (4pt. FLAW) 

Not only are you blood bound, but you are also in thrall 
10: &:vainpire who mistress you hideously. Perhape you are 
publicly abused or humiliated; perhaps your master forces you 
to’commit unspeakable acts for him, In any case; existence 
under the bond is a never-ending nightmare, with your 
regnant serving to conduct the symphony of malice. 


Overextennen (4pt. Fraw) 

You've gut your fingers in:too many pies, and people are 
stiitihig va. Hotices Vos huve\too manyeghouls: teasmeny 
retainers and too many influences, which means that a lot of 
people have a vested interest in trimming back your opera- 
tions. These enemies take every opportunity to reduce your 
power and influence, and if that means lying, cheating or 
killing, so be it. Furthermore, your enemies block every 
attempt you make to move into new areas of control. You're 
boxed in, and the box is getting smaller. 


Boop Hunten (4-0pt. FLaw) 

You have been made the target ofa blood hunt, and for you 
to return to your home city is death. For four points, this Flaw 
means that only your home city is off-limits to you. For six, it 
means that the entire Camarilla is howling for your vitae. 


LAUGHINGSTOCK (5 pt. FLaw) 

Somehow you've drawn the scorn of the local harpies, 
who make you their favorite and reflexive target. You are ata 
+2 difficulty on all Social rolls in Elysium and a +1 anywhere 
else in the city. In addition, you are at +2 difficulty to use 
Intimidation or any Dominate powers on anyone who has 
heard the stories mocking you. 


Rep List (7pt. Fraw) 

Youare either being considered for or are already on the 
dreaded Red List, the registry of those vampires the Camarilla 
most wants extinguished. Any Camarilla vampire will ei- 
ther attack you on sight or, more likely, call in for a great 
deal of help. 


The GUDE 10 THE CAMARILLA 


B 


SUPERNATURAL 

Supernatural Merits and Flaws relate to the unseen 
world that swirls around mortal existence in the World of 
Darkness. These Traits tie vampires to the other monsters 
that stalk the night, as well as granting magical powers — or 


weaknesses — to Kindred thus afflicted 


Deceptive Aura (lpr. Merit) 


Your aura is unnaturally bri 


nt and colorful for a vam 


pire. You register as a mortal on all attempts to read your aura. 


Heainc Toucn (lpr. Mert) 
Normally vampires can only seal the wounds they inflict by 
lickingthem. With buta touch, youcan achieve the same effect 


INOFFENSIVE TO ANIMALS (lpt. Merit) 
With rare exceptions, animals usually despise the Kindred. 
Some flee, others attack, but all dislike being in the presence of 


h problem. Animals may not enjoy 


a vampire. You have ne 


being in your company, but they don’t actively flee from you 


Hippen Diascerie (3 pt. Merr) 
The tell-tale black streaks of diablerie do not manifest in 


your aura. 


ADDITIONAL Discipiine (5 pt. Merrit) 

You can take one additional Discipline (Storyteller 
discretion) as if it were a clan Discipline. All costs to learn 
that Discipline are paid out as if it were native to your clan.A 


character can not take this merit more than once. 


Corp Breeze (lpr. FLaw) 


A chill wind follows you everywhere yor 


zo. While it may 


nces, this effect also discomfits mortals 


make for dramatic 
(+1 difficulty on all appropriate Social rolls) and also endan- 
gers the Masquerade. Cold winds sweeping through executive 


offices or crowded nightclubs can raise all sorts of questions. 


Beacon OF THE UNHOLY (2pt. FLAW) 

You radiate palpable evil. Clergy and devout mortals 
know instinctively that there is something horribly wrong 
with you, and react accordingly. Churches and other places 


f worship are barred to you as well 


DEATHSIGHT (2pt. FLAW) 


Everyth 


g appears rotted and decayed to you. The world 
appears to youas a corpse; mortals look diseased or skeletal, buildings 


seem decrepit, and your fellow Kindred seem to be walking, mold 


ering cadavers. You are at -2 difficulty to resist all rolls based on 
Appearance, but by the same token you are at +2 difficulty on all 
Perception-based rolls. In addition, you find social interaction 
difficult and are at +1 difficulty on all Social-based rolls. 


Lorp or tHe Fries (2pt. Faw) 

Buzzing harbingers of decay swirl around you everywhere 
it difficult for you to interact 
socially (+1 difficulty when appropriate) and nearly impossible to 


Their constant presence mak 


sneak up on someone or hide effectively. The buzzing of the flies 


inevitably gives you away — all Stealth rolls are at +2 difficulty 
From THe BEGINNING: CHAR 
79 


4 


rA ies >é 
SANT 
“tad 


See, I have given you wings on which to hover uplifted high 
above the earth entire and the great waste of the sea without strain 


-Thedgnis of Mégara, Richard Lattimore, trans. 


Mostof the outrageous and terrifying vampire mythsin the 
World of Darkness can be traced to uses of the vampiric powers 
known as Disciplines. Seemingly magical in their manifesta- 
tion, Disciplinesareameansby which vampirescan manipulate 
vitae and the world around them to produce spectacular and 
often terrifying effects beyond the capabilities of mere mortals. 

However, even among the unliving there is a hierarchy 
of power. Age and strength of blood limit most vampires to 
the first five levels of the Disciplines (and lineage makessome 
of those relatively weak abilities harder to learn than others). 
It is only with power and, more importantly, with proximity 
to Caine’s generation, that the secrets of the higher level 
Disciplines (levels 6 through 9) are unlocked. 

Below are the higher level Discipline powers for the 
powers normally associated with the Kindred of the Camarilla. 
Some Disciplines feature multiple powers at various levels; in 
such cases a vampire with enough experience to learn one of 
the choicessimply picks one. Ifthe character later decides she 
wants to pick up the other option as well, she can go back and 
spend the experience to do so. 

Itshould be noted that the powers listed below could easily 
be abused and used to stomp a chronicle into a bloody pulp. 
These powers are, for lack ofa better word, powerful, and should 
be used with discretion and caution. It should take a great deal 
of hard work and effort (and by “a great deal,” we mean the in- 
play equivalentofdecadesor centuries) tomaster these hideously 


potent tricks; Level Five Discipline powers wreak quite enough 
havoc already. Storytellers should think long and hard about 
allowing high-level Disciplines into their games (even if the 
characters are of an appropriate generation to learn them) 
before giving the go-ahead, and they should always remember 
thatuse of powers like 


ancient, powerful — and possibly worth diablerizing. 


pecies Speech mark the wielderas being 


Rott YouROwWN 

The powers presented below are the most common high- 
level variations of the vampiric Disciplines, butare by nomeans 
the only ones. Once a vampire has sufficient skill and power to 
learn powers of Level Six and above, she also gains a sufficient 
understanding of her Discipline’s essential nature to allow her 
to create her own powers. That does not mean that a seventh- 
generation vampire can suddenly start spewing forth random 
manifestations of Obfuscate, but rather that she has the ability 
to craft a new Level Six power and purchase it with experience 
instead of one of the more common options. 

Any new power that a character creates should be cleared 
with the Storyteller before it ever sees the light of play. Power 
level, game balance and appropriateness within the bounds of 
the campaign should be the criteria by which the proposed 
power should be judged. A Storyteller should feel free to veto 
a proposed power at any time in the best interests of the game. 
Just because a character has the potential to create anew power 
doesn’t mean that she can actually do it. 


Powers Bevonn UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DiscPLINES 


8i 


For ExXAMpLe 

Halfdan Forkbeard, an English Brujah, manages, 
by dint of perseverance and taking the prize on several 
blood hunts, to achieve Seventh Generation. Having 
a huge backlog of experience, he decides that he 
immediately wants to purchase a Level Six Presence 
power. However, scanning down the list of choices, 
Halfdan’s player decides he doesn't like any of the 
available options. Instead, he decides to cook up his 
own variation of Presence 6, one that he calls Blind 
Obedience and that in essence turns everyone in a 
half-mile radius of the character into a screaming 
groupie. The player writes up a treatment of the power, 
including duration, cost, effects and so on, and pre- 
sents it to his Storyteller, who feels that as written it’s 
atrifle overpowered. He suggests that Halfdan instead 
learn Paralyzing Stare and continue to work on “refin- 
ing” Blind Obedience, which he'll be glad to take 
another look at in a few months. Halfdan’s player 
grumbles, but follows the suggestion and immediately 
gets to work trying to create a less powerful, more 
appropriate version of the power. 


Note: Some Disciplines have more options listed below than 
others. The disparity does not mean that some are more versatile 
than others. Rather, it means that there are more commonly 


known applications of certain Disciplines than there are of others. 


ANIMALISM 


000000 ANIMAL SUCCULENCE 

Most vampires find the blood of animals flat, tasteless 
and lacking in nutritional value. Some Gangreland Nosferatu, 
however, have refined their understanding of the spirits of 
such “lesser prey” to the point that they are able to draw much 
more sustenance from beasts than normal Kindred can. This 
power does not allow an elder to subsist solely on the blood 


of animals, but it does allow him to go for extended periods of 


time without taking vitae from humans or other Kindred. 
System: No roll is needed; once learned, this power is 

always in effect. Animal Succulence allows a character to 

count each blood point drawn from an animal as two in her 


For BEXAMPLe 

Ariadne, a sixth-generation Gangrel archon, has 
finally scraped together enough experience to acquire an 
Animalism 6 power, and is presented with option of 
choosing from among Animal Succulence, Shared Soul 
and Species Speech. As Ariadne’s modus operandi in- 
volves moving around a lot, meaning that feeding 
opportunities can sometimes get scarce, Ariadne’s player 
decides that she needs to take Animal Succulence to 
maximize the chances her character does get. She marks 
off the experience, adds the dots and moves on. 

A few months of gameplay later, Ariadne has once 
again managed to rack up an impressive amount of 
experience. She has enough to purchase a seventh-level 
power, but decides that Species Speech would give her 
more options when she ventures into cities (all those rats 
to put to work, you know). So the Gangrel’s player marks 
off the experience necessary to pick up another sixth- 
level Discipline instead ofa seventh-level one and writes 
Species Speech down on the character sheet. Ariadne 
now has two Level Six Discipline powers, plusa little bit 
òf experience left over. 


blood pool. This does not increase the size of the vampire’s 
blood pool, just the nutritional value of animal blood. 
Animal Succulence does not allow a character to com- 
pletely ignore his craving for the blood of “higher” prey; in 
fact, it heightens his desire for “real food.” Every three times 
(rounded down) the character drinks from an animal, a 
cumulative +1 difficulty is applied to the next Self-Control 
roll the player makes when the character is confronted with 
the possibility of dining on human ot Kindred blood. 
Animal Succulence does not increase the blood point 
value of othersupernatural creatures (Gangrel, mages, pookas, 
werecreatures) who have taken animal forms. 


eco © SHARED SOUL 


This power allows character to probe the mind ofany one 
animal within reach. Shared Soul can be very disconcerting to 
both parties involved, as each participant is completely im- 
mersed in the thoughtsand emotionsof the other. With enough 
effortor time, each participant can gain a complete understand- 


HiGH Lever DISCIPLINES 


Discipline Level Cost 


(Clan Discipline) 


30 
35 
40 
45 


Cost (Non- 
Clan Discipline) 
42 
49 
56 
63 


Level 10 Disciplines are only available to vampires of the Third Generation, an exalted state which players’ 


characters are unlikely ever to attain. 


The GUIDE TO THe CAMARILLA 


82 


For BxAMpLe 

Malenkov the Gangrel has fed happily from the herd 
of deer that forages around his haven 10 times. Venturing 
into the city for an appointment in Elysium, he comes 
across the scene of a gun battle and spots a puddle of 
spilled human blood on the ground. Malenkov’s Self- 
Control roll to keep from diving in and gorging on the 
blood is made at +3 difficulty. His player rolls well, and 
Malenkov is sufficiently self-possessed to move on, but 


next time he might not be so lucky 


ingofthe other's mind. Shared Soul is most often used to extract 
an animal’s memories ofa specific event, but some Gangrel use 
thispowerasatool in thesearch for enlightenment, feeling they 
come to a better understanding of their own Beasts through 
rapport with true beasts. Too close ofa bond, however, can leave 
the two souls entangled after the sharing ends, causing the 
vampire to adopt mannerisms, behavior patterns or even ethics 


(or lack thereof) similar to those of the animal. 
System: The character touches the intended subject crea 
ls Perception + Animal Ken (difficulty 


Willpower point for every turn past the 


ture, and the p 

6). The player sper 
first that contact is maintained. Locating a specific memory 
takes six turns, minus one turn for every success on the roll. A 
complete bond takes 10 turns, minus one turn for every success 


on the roll. A botch on this roll may, at the Storyteller’s 


liscretion, send the vampire into a frenzy or give the character 
1 derangement related to the behavior patterns of the animal 
(extreme cowardice if the vampire contacted the soul of a 


mouse, bloodlust if the subject was a rabid dog, and so forth). 


$0 0o00 Species SpeecH 


The basic power Sweet Whispers (Animalism 1) allows a 


character tocommunicate with only one animal ata time. With 


Species Speech, a character can enter intop mmunion 


with all creatures of a certain species that ecies 


Speech is mostoften used after an application of The Beckoning 
(Animalism 2), whic s a crowd y subjects. 
rolls Manipul 


(difficulty 7) to establish contact with the targeted 


System: The player ation + Animal Ken 
sroup of 
animals, Once the character establishes contact, the player 
makes a second roll to issue commands. There is no practical 
upper limit on the number of animals that can be commanded 


with this power, although all of the intended subjects must be 


in the vampire’s immediate y one species of 
haracter is 


uld 


nstrictors 


animal can be commanded at a t 
standing in the middle of the reptile she 
mmandall ofthe Kom dragons, al 


uldnotsimultar 


oralloftheskinks, butshe cc 


give orders 
to every reptile or snake present. Species Speech functions 
much like Sweet Whispers in all other respects 

(Note: Players who get too wrapped up in the species 


difference between northem diamondback rattlesnakesand south- 


Powers BEYOND UNDERSTANDING: ADVANC 


83 


eastern diamondback rattlesnakes need to relax and let the point 
go. At Storyteller discretion, the expenditure of a additional 
Willpower point allows the character's commands to extend to 
members of a similar species to the one initially commanded.) 


s © CONQUER THE BEAST 


Mastersof Animalism have a much greater understanding 
ofboth beasts in general and the Beast in particular. Those who 
have developed this power can master their own Beasts to a 
degree impossible for lesser Kindred to attain. Conquer the 
Beast allows the vampire both to control her frenzies and also 
toenter them at will. Some elders say that the development of 
this power is one of the first steps on the road to Golconda. 

System: The character can enter frenzy at will. The player 
rolls Willpower (difficulty 7). Success sends the character into 
acontrolled frenzy. He can choose his targets at will, but gains 
limited Dominate and wound penalty resistance and Rétschreck 
immunity as per the normal frenzy rules. A botch on the roll 
sends the vampire into an uncontrolled frenzy which Conquer 
the Beast may not be used to end. 

The player may also roll Willpower (difficulty 9) toenable 
the character to control an involuntary frenzy. In this case, a 
Willpower point must be spent for every tum that the vampire 
remains in frenzy. The player may make Self-Control rolls as 
normal toend a frenzy, but ifthe vampire runs out of Willpower 
points before the frenzy ends, he drops into an uncontrolled 
frenzy again. A botch on the Willpower roll raises the difficulty 
of the vampire’s Self-Control rolls by two and renders Conquer 
the Beast unusable for the remainder of the night. 


@eeeeeee Taunt THE CAGED BEAST 

Some Kindred are so attuned to the Beast that they can 
unleash it in another individual at will. Vampires who have 
developed this power are able to send adversaries into frenzy 
with a finger’s touch and the resultant, momentary contact 
with the victim’s Beast. The physical contact allows the 
vampire’s own Beast to reach out and awaken that of the 
victim, enraging it by threatening its spiritual territory. 

System: The character touches the target. The player spends 
aWillpowerpointand rolls Manipulation + Empathy (difficulty 7). 
The victim makes a Self-Control roll (difficulty 5 + the number of 
successes); failure results in an immediate frenzy, with standard rules 
applying. A botch causes the charactertounleash hisown Beastand 
frenzy instead. This power may be used on those individuals whoare 
normally incapable of frenzy, sending ordinary humans into mur- 
derous rages worthy of the bloodthirstiest Brujah berserker. 


00000008 UNCHAIN THE BEAST 

The self-destructive nature of Cainites can be turned 
against them by an elder who possesses this formidable power. 
With a glance, the vampire can awaken the Beasts of her 
enemies, causing physical injury and excruciating agony as 
the victim’s own violent impulses manifest in physical form 
to tear him apart from within. A target of this power erupts 
into a fountain of blood and gore as claw and bite wounds 
from an invisible source spontaneously tear his flesh asunder. 


System: The character makes eye contact with the 
intended victim. The player spends three blood points and 
rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty of the victim’s 
Self-Control + 4). Each success inflicts one health level of 
lethal damage, which can be soaked normally. A botch 
inflicts one health level of lethal damage on the character for 
each “1” rolled. This damage can also be soaked normally. 


AUSPEX 


©0000 0 CLAIRVOYANCE 

By using Clairvoyance, a vampire can perceive distant events 
without using Psychic Projection. By concentrating on a familiar 
person, place or object, a character can observe the subject's 
immediate vicinity while staying aware of her own surroundings. 

System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy (diffi- 
culty 6) and describes the target she’s trying to look in on. Ifthe 
roll is successful, the character can then perceive the events 
and environment surrounding the desired target for one turn 
per success. Other Auspex powers may be used on the scene 
being viewed; these are rolled normally. Clairvoyance does 
split the vampire's perceptions between what she is viewing at 
a distance and what is taking place around her. As a result, 
while using this power, a character is at +3 difficulty on all rolls 
relating to actions that affect her physical surroundings. 


° Prepiction 


Some people are capable of finishing their friends’ sentences. 
Elder vampires with Prediction sometimes begin their friends’ 
sentences. Prediction is a constant low-level telepathic scan of the 
mindsofeveryone the characteris in proximity to. While thispower 
does not give the vampire the details of his neighbors’ conscious 
thoughts, it does provide a wealth of cues as to the subjects’ moods, 
suppressed reflexes and attitudes toward the topic of conversation. 

System: Whenever the character is in conversation and 
either participant in the discussion makes a Social roll, the 
player may pre-empt the roll to spend a blood point and make 
a Perception + Empathy roll (difficulty of the target’s Manipu- 
lation + Subterfuge). Each success is an additional die that can 
be applied to the player's Social roll or subtracted from the dice 
pool of the Social roll being made against the character. 


e TELEPATHIC COMMUNICATION 


Telepathy (Auspex4)allowsacharactertopickuponlythe 
surface thoughts of other individuals, and to speak to one at a 
time. With Telepathic Communication, a character can form a 
link between his mind and that of other subjects, allowing them 
to converse in words, concepts and sensory images at the speed 
of thought. Vampires with this level of Auspex can act as 
“switchboard operators,” creating a telepathic web that allows 
all participants to share thoughts with some or all other mem- 
bers of the network as they choose. 

System: The player rolls Charisma + Empathy (diffi- 
culty of the target's current Willpower) to establish contact, 
although a willing subject may allow the vampire access and 


The Gude 10 THE CAMARILLA 


84 


thus obviate the need fora roll. The maximum range at which 


a subject may be contacted and the maximum number of 


individuals who may be linked simultaneously with this 
power depends on the Auspex rating of the vampire who 
initiates contact. 
Auspex Rating No. of Targets Range 
Auspex 6 3 subjects 500 miles 
Auspex 7 Perception rating 1000 miles 
Auspex 8 Perception + Empathy 500 miles for 
combined every point of 
Intelligence 
Auspex 9 2x Perception 1000 miles for 
mpathy every point of 
combined Intelligence 


eeeeeee KARMIC SIGHT 

The power of Aura Perception (Auspex 2) allows a 
vampire to take a brief glimpse at the soul of a subject. This 
power takes Aura Perception several steps forward, allowing 
a vampire who has mastered Auspex 2 to probe the inner 
workings of a subject's mind and soul. Knowledge acquired in 
this fashion can be used in many ways, anda vampire who has 
developed this power is undoubtedly familiar with all of 
them. 

System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy (diffi- 
culty of the subject’s permanent Willpower). The degree of 
success determines the information gaineco 
No. Of Successes Effect 
Botch The character gains a Derangement or 

Psychological/Mental/Superatural 
Flaw of the target’s for one night, at 
Storyteller discretion. 

1 success As per five successes on an Aura 
Perception roll 

2 successes Subject’s Nature, Demeanor and Hu- 
manity/Path can be determined. 

3 successes Any outside influences on the subjec 
mind or soul, such as Dominate or a 
demonic pact, can be detected. 

4 successes Subject’s Willpower, Humanity/Path 
and Virtue scores can be determined. 

5 successes The state of the subject's karma may be 
determined. This is a highly abstract 
piece of information best left to Storyteller 
discretion, but should reveal the general 
balance between “good” and “bad” actions 


the subject has performed, both recently 


and over the course of his existence. If the 
plot merits it, the character may receive 
visions of one or more incidents in the 
subject's past that radically altered his 
destiny. With this degree of success, some 
fate-related Merits and Flaws (e.g. Destiny 
or Dark Fate) can be identified as well. 


Powers Berovo UNDERSTANDING:ADVANcED Disaipunes 
85 


©0000 0 MIRROR REFLEX 


This power was developed by a Toreador elder who mad 


2 fearsome reputation through her fencing prowess, acting as a 
hired champion in dozens of Ventrue duels. Mirror Reflex is 
n that it is in essence a low-leve 


similar to Prediction 


telepathic scan of an opponent, but this power taps into 
physical (rather than social) reflexes, allowing the character t 
anticipate an enemy's moves in personal combat 

System: The player spends a blood pointand rolls Percep 
tion + the combat skill the opponent is using (difficulty of the 
subject's Manipulation + combat skill in use). Each success is 
an additional die that can be applied to the character's dice 
pools during the next turn of combat for any actions taken 
against the scanned opponent. The use of Mirror Reflex does 
take one combat action, and the power has a maximum range 


in yards equal to the character's Willpower rating 


©0000 ee Dsycnic ASSAULT 


Psychic Assault is nothing less than a direct mind-to- 


mind attack which uses the sheer force of an elder’s will to 
overpower his target. Victims of Psychic Assault show little 
outward sign of the attack, save for nosebleeds and expressions 
of intense agony; all injuries by means of this psychic pressure 


inflicted are internal. A medical examination of a mortal 


victim of a Psychic Assault invariably shows the cause of death 
to be a heart attack or aneurysm, while vampires killed with 


this power decay to dust instantly, regardless of age 


System: The character must touch or make eye contact 
with his target. The player spends three blood points (and a 
Willpower point, if assaulting a vampire or other supernatu 
being) and rolls Manipulation + Intimidation in an contested 
roll against the victim’s permanent Willpower. The result 
depends on the number of net successes the attacker rolls, 
Effect 


The target becomes immune to the 
attacker's Psychic Assault for one night 


No. of Successes 


Botch 


per “1” rolled. 
ailure The target isunharmed and may determine 
that a psychic assault is taking place by 
succeedingona Perception + Occultroll 
(difficulty 6). 

success The target is shaken but unharmed. 

He losesa temporary Willpower point 
The target is badly frightened. He loses 
three temporary Willpower points and, 
ifa vampire, must roll Courage (difficulty 
of the attacker's Auspex score) to avoid 
Roétschreck 

The ta 


pointsand, ifa vampire, must roll Courage 


successes zet loses six temporary Willpower 


as above. If this causes him to lose his last 


temporary Willpower point, he loses a 


permanent Willpower pointand receives 


Trt GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


86 


three health levels of bashing damage 
(soaked normally). 

Thetarget losesall temporary Willpower 

points and half of his permanent Will 

powerpoints (round down) and receives 

three health levels of lethal damage 

(soaked normally). 

‘The target must roll Willpower (difficulty 7). 

If he succeeds, apply the effect of four 

successes. If he fails, the Psychic Assault 

kills him instantly. 

Any result that causes the victim to lose his last temporary 
Willpowerpointalsorendershimunconsciousfortherestofthe night. 


00000000 Parse SLUMBER 

Possibly the source of many Malkavians’ conviction that 
their sire is alive and well on the astral plane, this power 
allows a Methuselah’s spirit to leave his body while in torpor. 
While seemingly asleep, the vampire is able to project as- 
trally, think and perceive events normally. 

System: No roll is needed. This power is considered to be 
active whenever the vampire’s body is in torpor, and astral 
travels are handled as per the rules for Psychic Projection 
(Auspex 5). The vampire may not be able to awaken physically 
atwill, however— waking from torporis handled per the normal 
rules forsuchanaction (seep. 216, Vampire: The Masquerade). 

A vampire with this power whose silver cord is severed in 
astral combat loses all Willpower points, as per the rules for 
astral combat under Psychic Projection (Vampire: The Mas- 
querade, pp. 152), but is not killed. Instead, he loses the use of 
this Auspex power and half of his permanent Willpower points. 
Both the Auspex 9 power and the Willpower must be bought 
back with experience points. The vampire’s soul slowly returns 
tohis body over the course of a yearanda day, during which time 
he may not be awakened from torpor by any means. 


CELERITY 


Few Kindred can even conceive of any use for Celerity 
other than thatofspeedingupone’sactionsso that one might 
pop off a few more TEC-9 rounds in combat. While that 
approach is all well and good, there are other potential 
applications of the power available to ancient, learned or 
clever vampires. 


5 successes 


Under normal circumstances, advanced mastery of Celer- 
ity means that the normal progression of powers predominates. 
Unless the character makes a special effort to learn an alternate 
power or to create one, each additional level of the power from 
6 to9 means that once the Discipline is activated, the vampire 
simply receives another additional action per turn. 

If, however, the vampire chooses to take an alternate 
power, she forfeits that normal progression (which can later 
be made up through experience) and takes the new manifes- 
tation of Celerity instead. She does not gain the extra action 
in addition to the special power; it’s an either/or situation. 


Note: Yes, there are fewer alternate Celerity powers listed 
than there are for any other Discipline (save Potence and 
Fortitude). No, this is not an oversight — there has been less 
impetus for practitioners of these three Disciplines to develop 
variations than there has been on masters of, say, Auspex. 


eeeeee PRojectLe 
Despite the fact that a vampire with Celerity moves at 
incredible speeds, by some quirk of metaphysicsany bullets he 
fires or knives he throws while in this state don’t move any 
faster than they normally would. Scientifically minded Kin- 
dred have been baffled by the phenomenon for centuries, but 
more pragmatic ones have found a way to work around it. 
Projectile enables a vampire to take his preternatural speed 
and transfer it intosomethinghe has thrown, fired or launched. 
System: Projectile requires the expenditure of a blood 
point. In addition, the player must decide how many levels of 
his character's Celerity he is putting into the speed of the 
launched object. Thus, a character with Celerity 6 in addi- 
tion to Projectile could decide to put three dots’ worth of 
speed into a knife he is throwing, and use the other three dots 
extra actions as per normal. Each dot of Celerity infused 
into a thrown object becomes an automatic success on the 
attack’s damage roll, assuming the knife/hatchet/spear/bullet 
actually hits. 


eoeeeee Fi OweROFDEATH 

In combat, as in all things, speed kills. A proper applica- 
tion of Celerity in combat can turn even the meekest Cainite 
into a walking abattoir. How much more deadly, then, is a 
vampire with the ability to utilize his preternatural speed to the 
utmost in combat? The answer to that question is “Rather a 
lot.” Flower of Death allows a vampire to take his Celerity and 
apply it in full to each hand-to-hand or melee attack he makes. 

System: Flower of Death costs four blood points, but the 
spectacular effect is well worth it. Once the power is in effect, a 
number of dice equal to the vampire’s normal Celerity rating gets 
added to every dice pool for attack the character makes until the 
end of the scene. The effect is limited to hand-to-hand or melee 
weapon attacks — firearms, bows and whatnot are excluded — 
and does not grant the attacker additional dice for damage rolls. 

Flower of Death is not cumulative — it is impossible to 
“layer” uses of the power over one another to create astro- 
nomical dice pools. 


For ExXAMpLe 

Dominic Atter, aseventh-generation Toreador with 
a taste for trouble, scrapes together enough experience to 
increase his Celerity expertise to Level Six. However, he 
decides he wants the alternate Level Six power, Projec- 
tile, instead. After spending the experience to pick up 
Projectile, Dominic is now in a position (once he acti- 
vates his Celerity) to take five extra actions per turn, or 
to use his preternatural speed to hurl knives, shurikens or 
whatever else comes to hand with deadly velocity. 


Powers BEYOND UNpErsTANDING: ADVANCED DISCIPLINES 


87 


ee0eeeee ZEDHYR 


Zephyr produces an effect vaguely similar to one of the 
legendary comic book-style uses of enhanced speed, allowing its 
practitioner to run so fast he can run across water (he’s moving 
so fast he doesn’t have time to sink). Particularly successful 
applications of Zephyr allow a vampire to go so far as to run up 
walls and, in at least one recorded instance, across a ceiling, 
though the latter is more of a parlor trick than anything else. 

System: Zephyr requires the expenditure ofa point each 
of blood and Willpower. Unfortunately, Zephyr requires such 
extremes of concentration that it cannot be combined with 
any form of attack, or indeed, with most any sort of action at 
all. Ifa character using Zephyr feels the need to do something 
else while moving at such tremendous speeds, a Willpower 
roll (difficulty 8) is required. Needless to say, botches at 
Zephyr speed can be spectacular in all the wrong ways. 

Most times, a vampire moving at such a rate of speed is 
barely visible, appearing more as a vampire-shaped blur than 
anything else. Observers must succeed on a Perception + 
Alertness roll (difficulty 7) to get even a decent look at a 


Kindre 


oming past in this fashion. 


DOMINATE 


Any vampire with Dominate 6 or higher may employ Domi- 
nate upon a character with the Merit Iron Wil, “burning through” 
the defender’s barriers. An Iron Willed character may spend a 


Willpowerpoint toraise the difficulty ofa Dominate attemptby +2 
iftheattackerhas Dominate orby+1ifhehas . 
Iron Will providesno benefit whatsoever against the commands of 


a character with Dominate ** © or higher. 


00000 e CHAINTHE DSYCHE 
ot content with merely commanding their subjects, 


some elders apply this power to ensure obedience from 
recalcitrant victims. Chain the Psyche is a Dominate tech- 
nique that inflicts incapacitating pain ona target who attempts 
to break the vampire’s commands. 


System: The playerspendsablood pointwhen her character 
applies Dominate to a subject. Any attempt that the subject 
makes to go against the vampire’s implanted commands or to 
recover stolen memories causes intense pain. When such an 
attempt is made, the Storyteller rolls the character's Manipula- 
tion + Intimidation (difficulty ofthe subject’sStamina+Empathy). 
Each success equals one tum that the victim is unable to act, as 
she is wracked with agony. Each application of Chain the Psyche 
crushes a number of resistance attempts equal to the character's 
Manipulation rating, after which the effect fades. 


eeeeeelovarty 

With this power in effect, the elder’s Dominate is so 
strong that other vampires find it almost impossible to break 
with their own commands. Despite the name, Loyalty instills 
no special feelings in the victim — the vampire’s commands 
are simply implanted far more deeply than normal. 


Tue Guine To THE CAMARILLA 


8 


System: Any other vampire attempting to employ Domi- 
nate on a subject who has been Dominated by a vampire with 
Loyalty must spend an additional Willpower point and make 
all rolls to do so at +3 difficulty. 


© © 0 © © OBEDIENCE 

While most Kindred must employ Dominate through 
eye contact, some powerful elders may command loyalty with 
the lightest brush of a hand. 

System: The character can employ all Dominate powers 
through touch instead of eye contact (although eye contact still 
works). Skin contact is necessary — simply touching the target's 
clothing or something she is holding will not suffice. The touch 
does not have to be maintained for the full time it takes to issue 
a Dominate command, though repeated attempts to Dominate a 
single target require the character to touch the subject again. 


ooeeeee Mass MANIPULATION 

A truly skilled elder may command small crowds through 
the use of this power. By manipulating the strongest minds within 
a given group, a gathering may be directed to the vampire’s will. 

System: The player declares that he is using this power 
before rolling for the use of another Dominate power. The 
difficulty of the roll is that which would be required to 
Dominate the most resistant member of the target group — 
if he cannot be Dominated, no one in his immediate vicinity 
can. For every success past that needed to inflict the desired 


For BxXAMpLe 

Domingo is of the Fourth Generation. He wants to 
command his immediate progeny and their childer to 
protect the city under which he will soon enter torpor. 
Domingo’s player rolls for the use of this power against a 
difficulty of 6 (4 + the two generations to whom the 
command goes out). He succeeds, and members of his 
brood begins manipulating mortal affairs to ensure the 
prosperity of Domingo’s new home. Several of them take 
up the reins of power, becoming princes of nearby cities, 
and all believe that they are acting independently — 
whimsy or fate made them choose to settle where they did. 

Several centuries later, Domingo awakens (in a much 
largercity, by this point). He soon learns that a close friend 
of his was destroyed by the Tremere while he slumbered. 
Overcome with rage, he orders every descendant of his to 
make the destruction of Clan Tremere an immediate 
priority, down to those neonates of the 14th Generation. 
This command spans 10 generations, fifth down to 14th, 
and thus the difficulty is 14 (4 + 10 generations), or 
difficulty 10 with five successes. Amazingly, the player rolls 
five 10s, and hundreds of vampires across the globe slowly 
begin harboring grudges against the Tremere. Maybe this 
explains why no one likes the Warlocks... 

Note: The above is an example for demonstration 
purposes only. It is not a mandate to create fourth- 
generation characters. 


resulton the first target, the player may choose one additional 

target to receive the same effect in its entirety. The vampire 

needs to make eye contact only with the initial target. 
@eeee STILL THE MORTAL FLESH 


Despite its name, this power may be employed on vampires 
as well as mortals, and it has left more than one unfortunate 
victim writhing in agony — or unable todoeven that. A vampire 
whohas developed this power isable to override her victim's body 
as easily as his mind in order to cut off his senses or even stop his 
heart. It is rumored that this power once came more easily to the 
Kindred, but modern medicine has made the bodies and spirits of 
mortals more resistant to such manipulations. 

System: The player rolls Manipulation + Medicine (diffi- 
culty of the target’s Willpower + 2; a difficulty over 10 means 
that this power cannot affect the target at all). The effect lasts 
for one turn per success. The player must choose what function 
of the target's body is being cut off before rolling. She may affect 
any of the body’s involuntary functions; breathing, circulation, 
perspiration, sight and hearing are all viable targets. While Still 
the Mortal Flesh is in effect, a vampire can either stop any one 
of those functions entirely or cause them to fluctuate erratically. 

The exact effects of any given bodily function being shut off 
are left to the Storyteller. Most mortals panic if suddenly struck 
blind, but only the shutdown of the heart will kill a target 
instantly. Vampires are unaffected by loss of heartbeat or breath- 
ing, but may be rendered deaf and blind as easily as mortals. 


@e0eee FAR MASTERY 

This refinement of Obedience (though the character 
need not have learned Obedience first) allows the use of 
Dominate on any subject that the vampire is familiar with, at 
any time, over any distance. If the elder knows where his 
target is, he may issue commands as if he were standing face- 
to-face with his intended victim. 

System: The player spends a Willpower point and rolls 
Perception + Empathy (difficulty equal to the subject’s Wits 
+ Stealth) to establish contact. If this roll succeeds, Domi- 
nate may be used as if the character had established eye 
contact with the target. A second Willpower point must be 
spent in order for a vampire to use this power on another 
vampire or other supernatural being. 


eeeeee eee Speak THROUGH THE BLOOD 


The power structures of Methuselahs extend across conti- 
nentsand centuries. This power isa powerful tool by which such 
ancients wield control over their descendants, even far outside 
their geographic spheres of influence. Speak Through the Blood 
allows an elder to issue commands to every vampire whose 
lineage returns to her — even if the two have never met. Thus, 
entire broods act to further the goals of sleeping ancients whose 
existences they are completely unaware of. The vampires 
affected by this power rarely act directly to pursue the command 
they were given, but over 10 or so years, their priorities slowly 
shift until the fulfillment of the Methuselah’s command is 
among their long-term goals. Speak Through the Blood, be- 


Powers BEYOND UNDERSTANDING: ÀDVANCED DISCIPLINES 


89 


cause it takes effect so slowly, is rarely recognized as an outside 
influence, and its victims rationalize their behavior as “growing 
and changing,” or something to that effect 

System: The playerspendsapermanent Willpowerpointand 
rolls Manipulation + Leadership. The difficulty of this roll is equal 
to four plus the number of generations to which the command is to 
be passed. Unless the character is aware of the location and present 
agenda of every descendant of his—a highly unlikely event —he 
may only issue general commands, such as “work for the greater 
glory of Clan Malkavian” or “destroy all those who seek to 
extinguish the light of knowledge.” Speak Through the Blood can 
be used by a vampire in torpor. Commands issued through this 
power last for one decade per success on the roll. Difficulties over 
10 require one additional success for each point past 10, making it 
that much more difficult to issue long-lastingcommandsstretching 
down to the ends of one’s lineage. 

A vampire who has reached Golconda is not affected by 
this power, and is completely unaware that it has been used, 
Her childer, however, are affected normally unless they are 
also enlightened. Ghouls of the victims of this power are also 
affected, but to a lesser extent than vampires. 


FORTITUDE 


Vampires have inhuman stamina by mortal standards, 
capable as they are of withstanding being repeatedly shot, 


stabbed, crushed, staked and otherwise brutalized without 


Te 


%0 


showing much wear. Then there are those Kindred whose 
powers of endurance cause even other vampires to marvel 
orfear. A vampire with sufficient mastery of Fortitude is nigh: 
indestructible, able to withstand sunlight, flame and other 
perils that would quickly reduce a mere neonate to ash 
Kindred advance in Fortitude the same way they ad 
vance in Celerity, having the option to increase their basic 
mastery of the Discipline or to take an alternate power such 


as one of those detailed below 


©0000 0 DERSONAL ARMOR 
body likes to get hit (or shot, or stabbed for that 
matter), not even Cainites. The easiest way to ensure that 
one is not hit (or shot, or stabbed) repeatedly is to take the 
weapon with which one is assaulted away from one’s attacker 
and break it. That’s where Personal Armor comes in. This 
application of Fortitude, derived from one popular in the 
12th century, causes anything that strikes a Kindred who 
employs Personal Armor to shatter on impact 
System: With the expenditure of two blood points, a 
vampire can add preternatural hardness to his flesh. Every 
time an attack is made on the Kindred using Personal Armor 
(one which he does not dodge), his player rolls Fortitude 
(difficulty 8). If the roll grants more successes than the 
attacker rolled, then the weapon used to make the attack 
shatters against the vampire’s flesh. (Fetishes, klaives, “magi- 


cal” swords and so on may be resistant to this effect, at 


IDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


Storyteller discretion.) The vampire still takes normal dam- 
age if the attack is successful, even if the weapon shatters in 
the process; this damage may still be soaked. If the attack roll 
botches, any normal weapon automatically shatters. 

A hand-to-hand attack causes the attacker equal dam- 
age to that suffered by the defender when Personal Armor 
comes into play. On a miss, the attacker takes one level of 
bashing damage. 

The effects of this power last for the duration of the scene. 


@ 000008 SHARED STRENGTH 

It’sone thing to laugh off bullets, rather another to watch 
the ricochets mow down everyone around you. Many Kin- 
dred have wished, at one time or another, that they could 
lend their monstrous vitality to those around them. Those 
few vampires who have mastered Shared Strength can — if 
only for a little while. 

System: Shared Strength transfersa portion ofa vampire’s 
Fortitude (one dot for every point of blood the vampire 
spends) to another being. Activating the power requires a 
Stamina + Survival roll (difficulty 8, increased to 9 if the 
target is nota normal mortal), and the expenditure of a point 
of Willpower. Furthermore, the vampire must mark his target 
by pressing a drop of his blood onto the target’s forehead. This 
stain remains visible as long as the power is in effect, which 
is in turn determined by the initial roll. 

No. of Successes 

1 One turn 


Duration 


One scene 
One hour 
One night 
One week 
One month 
One year 
The target of this power need not be willing to accept the 
benefit to receive it. Particularly sadistic Kindred have come 
up with any number of ways in which a target's “devil’s mark” 
and supernatural endurance can be used to land him ina great 
deal of trouble. 
A vampire can never bestow more levels of Fortitude 
than he himself possesses on another. 
00000000 ADAMANTINE 
Adamantine functions as a more potent version of 
Personal Armor. 
System: This power mimics the effects of Personal Ar- 
mor, save that the vampire who uses it takes no damage from 
attacks that shatter on her skin. 


OBFUSCATE 


©0000 CONCEAL 
The vampire may mask an inanimate object up to the size 
of a house (Obfuscate cannot be used to disguise inanimate 


For EXAMPLE 

Amelia has earned enough experience points to pur- 
chase Obfuscate 6, and chooses Soul Mask as her new 
power. As the character has no Auspex, she has never seen 
an actual aura and thus cannot duplicate one. As a result, 
her use of Soul Mask displays no aura at all. After some 
time, however, Amelia learns the second level of Auspex 
from a seemingly friendly Malkavian, and the player also 
socks away enough experience to purchase a second Level 
Six Obfuscate power. Now aware of how useful a mislead- 
ing aura can be, she picks Soul Mask again, this time 
choosing to display the pure white aura of an innocent 
mortal child. Amelia can now choose to display her true 
aura, her “innocent” aura or no aura at all. 


objects without the use of this power). If the object is hidden, 
so are all of its contents, While Conceal is in effect, passersby 
walk around the concealed object as if it were still visible, but 
refuse to acknowledge that they are making any kind of detour. 

System: In order to activate this power, a character must 
be within 30 feet of the object to be concealed and the item 
must hold some personal significance. The Conceal power 
functions as Unseen Presence (Obfuscate 2) for purposes of 
detection, as well as the duration and durability of the disguise, 

Conceal can be used on a vehicle in which the character 
istraveling. In thisinstance, traffic patterns seem toflow around 
the vehicle, and accidents are actually less likely as other drivers 
subconsciously maneuver away from the concealed auto. A 
police radar gun still registers a speeding car masked in this 
fashion, but the officer behind the gun is disinclined to make a 
traffic stop of the phantom blip. Using Conceal on aircraft is 
problematic, as the power’s range generally doesn't extend far 
enough to cover air traffic controllers and the like. 


© ooo MIND BLANK 

A vampire with this power is able to shrug off telepathic 
contact, easily withstanding invasive probes of her mind. 

System: Anyattempttoread or probe the character’smind 
first requires a successful Perception + Empathy roll (difficulty 
of the character’s Wits + Stealth). Even if a potential intruder 
does succeed, his dice pool for the attempt itself is then limited 
to the number of successes he scored on the initial roll. 


@e0e08 Sour MASK 

In addition to concealing her form, a vampire who has 
developed Soul Mask is able to conceal her aura. She may 
display whatever combination of colors and shadesshe wishes, 
or may appear to have no aura whatsoever. This power is of 
particular use to those of elder generation who have reached 
such heights of power through diablerie. 

System: The use of this power allows the projection of 
only one aura (or lack thereof) — the vampire chooses the 
precise colors to be displayed when she first develops Soul 
Mask. If the character has no experience with the use of Aura 


Powers Bevono UNpEsstanpinc:Apvance Discieuines 


91 


Perception (Auspex 2), she may not choose an alternate aura, 
as she has no idea what one would look like, though she can 
still choose to display no aura whatsoever. Soul Mask can be 
bought multiple times, if desired, in order to give a vampire 
multiple alternate auras from which to choose. 

Unless the player states otherwise, Soul Mask is always 
in effect. If the character has bought Soul Mask two or more 
times, her “default” aura displayed is the first one she learned. 


Oe'e0@ ¢° CACHE 

Most Obfuscate powers require the individual using 
them to be within a short distance of the subjects of the 
concealment. Cache extends this range considerably, allow- 
ing an elder with this power to leave people or objects safely 
hidden while he goes about his business elsewhere. 

System: A character must be within the normal required 
distance to initiate an Obfuscate power. Once this is done, 
the player spends a Willpower point, which activates Cache 
on top of the already functioning use of the Discipline. The 
concealment will now remain in effect as long as the vampire 
is within a distance equal to his Wits + Stealth in miles ft 
the object or person he wishes to conceal. The enhanced 
concealment fades at the next sunrise, or breaks, as always, if 
the Obfuscate subject reveals himself. 


from 


eeeeeee Ver or BLISSFUL IGNORANCE 


This power’sdevelopment isattributed to the Malkavians, 
but many Nosferatu have also found it to be highly useful. 
The Veil of Blissful Ignorance allows a vampire to Obfuscate 
an unwilling victim, removing him from the notice of others. 
Some Nosferatu use this power to teach a humbling lesson to 


individuals who take the presence and aid of others for 
granted, while others utilize it to remove an essential member 
of a group in the midst of a crisis. 

System: The character must touch the victim to acti- 
vate this power. The player spends a blood point and rolls 
Wits + Stealth (difficulty of the victim’s Appearance + 3). If 
the roll is a success, the victim is subject to the effects of 
Vanish From the Mind’s Eye for a length of time determined 
by the number of successes the player rolls. 

No. of Successes 
1 success 


Duration 
Three turns 
2 successes One minute (20 turns) 
3 successes 15 minutes 
One hour 
One night 

The victim of Veil of Blissful Ignorance does not neces- 
sarily know thathe is under the effect of this power. He isonly 
aware that everyone around him has suddenly begun acting 
as if he were not there. The victim cannot break this effect, 
even with violence; if he attacks someone, the target ascribes 
the act to the visible individual nearest to him. More than one 
fatal brawl has been incited by this side-effect. The Veil 


persists even if the vampire who activated it leaves the area. 


4 successes 
5 successes 


Curiously enough, Veil of Blissful Ignorance can never be 
used on anyone who is ready and willing to accept its effects. 


@eeeeeee OLD FRIEND 

Many elder Nosferatu have made reputations for omni- 
science with the secrets they learn through creative uses of 
this power. A variation of Mask of a Thousand Faces, Old 
Friend allows a vampire to probe asubject’s subconscious and 
take the semblance of the individual whom that victim trusts 
over anyone else. Someone using this power does not appear 
as someone who the victim is frightened of or awed by, but 
rather someone to whom the victim feels comfortable reveal- 
ing intimate secrets. Old Friend doesn’t necessarily make its 
user appear as someone who is still among the living; a long- 
dead friend or relative is just as likely to be the assigned visage, 
and in such cases the subject remembers the encounter as a 
dream or a ghostly visitation. 

System: The player rolls Manipulation + Acting (diffi- 
culty equal to the victim's Perception + Alertness, maximum 
10). The more succe: 
ation. Each success also adds one die to all rolls involving the 
use of the Secondary Talent: Interrogation against the vic- 
tim. This power only affects one victim at a time; other 
observers see the vampire as she truly is, unless she also 
establishes a Mask of a Thousand Faces in addition to using 
Old Friend. 


000000000 CREATENAME 

Some Toreador call this power the ultimate develop- 
ment of method acting. Create 
create a completely new identity; face, speech pattern, aura, 
even thought processes are constructed according to the 
vampire’s desired identity. The power can be used to imper- 
sonate an existing individual, or it can project the semblance 
of a completely fictional identity with perfect accuracy. 


the more convincing the imperson- 


ame allows a character to 


System: A vampire working with Create Name must 
spend three hours a night in relatively uninterrupted quiet to 
establish a new personality by means of this power. The player 


For BxXAMpLe 

Damon the Malkavian decides that he wants to 
play doctor, and creates for himself the identity of Dr. 
Fein, the noted cardiologist. When discussing matters 
medical with a gang of Brujah who don’t know a coro- 
nary thrombosis from a cheeseburger, Damon’s act is 
flawless. However, when a Tremere vivisectionist sidles. 
up to the doctor fora little shop talk, with each sentence 
of technobabble that pours from Damon’s mouth it 
becomes that much more likely that the Tremere is 
going to figure out something's up. The Storyteller 
decides to roll Perception + Alertness on behalf of the 
Tremere once for every three minutes of conversation, 
andon the third try, the Warlock’s suspicions crystallize. 
Suddenly, the discussion has the potential to get ugly 
very quickly. 


The Gut 10 THE CaMARLLA 


2 


makes an extended roll of Intelligence + Acting (difficulty 
8), one roll per night. A total of 20 successes are necessary to 
constructa new identity, while a botch removes five successes 
from the vampire’s total. Once a new identity has been 
successfully created, however, the character can step into it 
at any time without any sort of roll. Any outside observer 
without Auspex 9 or the equivalent sees the artificial iden- 
tity. The character's face, aura, Nature, Demeanor, even 
thoughts and Psychological Merits and Flaws all appear to be 
those selected and crafted by the character 

The only way to pierce this disguise, other than Auspex 9, 
is to notice any discrepancies between the assumed identity and 
the Abilities it by all rights ought to possess. A character with no 
dots in Medicine should have a hard time pulling off a created 
identity as a neurosurgeon, for example. The Storyteller should 
makea secret roll of Perception + Alertness (difficulty 9) for each 
character who should catch a slip made by the impostor. 


PoOTENCE 


While flesh and blood have their limits, undead sinews and 
vitae havea bit more latitude when it comes to feats of strength, 
Vampires who are close to Caine in descent are sometimes 
capable of strength-based maneuvers that awe even other 
vampires. A product of blood and will as much as of muscle and 
bone, mastery of Potence gives a vampire the ability to do far 
more than just lift progressively heavier objects — if the 
vampire himself is willing to learn an alternate way 

Advanced Potence powers can be purchased in the same 
fashion as advanced Celerity or Fortitude powers. A charac 
tercan choose to learn an alternate power instead of advancing 
along the Discipline’s normal progression, and can later go 


back and re-purchase what he's missed 
©0000 o IMPRINT 


A vampirewithextensiveknowledgeofPotencecan squeeze 
very, very hard. As a matter of fact, she can squeeze (or press, or 
push) so hard that she can leave an imprint ofher fingers or hand 
in any hard surface up to and including solid steel. A use of 
Imprintcan simply serve asa threat, oritcan be used, forexample, 
to dig handholds into sheer surfaces for purposes of climbing. 

System: Imprint requires a point of blood to activate. 
The power remains active for the duration of a scene. The 


depth of the imprint the vampire creates with Imprint is up 
to the Storyteller — decisions should take into account how 


much force the vampire can bring to bear, the toughness of 
the material and its thickness. Ifthe object the vampire grasps 
is thin enough, at Storyteller option the vampire might 
simply be able to push through it (in the case of a wall) or tear 
it off (in the case of a spear or pipe). 


0000000 EARTHSHOCH 

According to some pundits, Potence is merely the art of 
hitting something very, very hard. But what do you do when 
your target is too far away to hit directly? The answer is, if you're 


Powers BEYOND UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DisciPtines 


93 


sufficiently talented with the Discipline, toemploy Earthshock. 
Oni itssimplest level, Earthshock is the ability to hit the ground 
at point A, and subsequently have the force of the blow emerge 
from the ground at point B, some distance away 

System: The use of Earthshock requires the expenditure of 
two blood points, as well asa normal Dexterity + Brawl roll. The 
vampire punches (or stamps on, depending on personal style) 
the ground, and, if the attack is a success, the force of the blow 
emerges from the ground as a geyser of rock, stone and whatnot 
directly underneath the target. The attack can be dodged at a 
+2 difficulty, as it’s a great deal more difficult to time a move 
away from an underground pulse than it is to duck a punch. 

The range on Earthshock is 10 feet for every level of 
Potence the vampire has, up to the limits of visibility. A 
failure on the attack roll means that the strike goes errant and 
is liable to explode anywhere within range; a botch means 
that the vampire pulverizes the ground beneath him and may 
well dig himself into a hole in the process 
eee eee Frick 

It is a truism that “the great ones always make it look 
easy.” In the case of Flick, that saying stops being a truism and 
becomes literal truth. With this power, a master of Potence 
can make the slightest gesture —a wave, a snap of the fingers, 
the toss of a ball — and have it unleash the full, devastating 
impact of a dead-on strike. The attack can come without 
warning, limiting the target’s ability to dodge or anticipate, 
and thus making Flick one of the most feared applications of 
Potence known. 

System: Flick costs a point of blood, and mandates a 
Dexterity + Brawl roll (difficulty 6). It also requires that the 
vampire make some sort of gesture directing the blow. What 
the gesture is remains up to the player —anything fromasnap 
of the fingers to a blown kiss has worked in the past 

Flick’s range is equal to the limit of the Kindred’s 
perception, and the blow struck does damage equal to a 


normal punch (including all bonuses) 


PRESENCE 


ooo * Love 

The blood bond is one of the most powerful tools in an 
elder’s inventory. However, more and more childer are aware 
of how to avoid being bound, so alternatives are needed. The 
Presence power called Love is one such alternative, as it 
simulates the effects of the bond without any of the messy side 
effects. While neither as sure a method of control as a true 


blood bond, nor as long-lasting, Love is still an extremely 


potent means of command. 


System: The player rolls Charisma + Acting (difficulty 
equal to the target’s Willpower). Success on the roll indicates 
that the victim feels as attached to the character as if he were 
blood bound to her. Each success also reduces the victim's 
dice pool by one die for any Social rolls to be made against the 


Cavana 


PReEseNce OVERRIDES 
Any vampire with Presence 6 or higher may em- 
ploy Presence upon a character with the Merit Blasé 
(see Clanbook: Toreador, p. 40), but ata +2 difficulty 
Presence 7 reduces this to +1 difficulty, and Presence 8 
or higher allows the character to apply Presence to Blasé 
victims as if they did not possess the Merit at all 


character. A botch makes the target immune to all of the 


character’s Presence powers for the rest of the night. This 


power lasts for one scene and can be applied to the same 


victim over multiple scenes in the same night 


©0000 PARAL YZING GLANCE 
Some elders have honed their mastery of Dread Gaze (Pres: 
ence 2) tosucha degree that they are said to be able toslay with but 
a look. Paralyzing Glance is not quite as effective as all that, but its 
impact isn’t anything to sneeze at, either. The power’s name is 
something of a misnomer, as victims of this power are not precisely 
paralyzed in a physical sense, but rather frozen with sheer terror. 
System: The character must make eye contact with her 
intended victim. The player then rolls Manipulation + Intimida- 
tion (difficulty equal to the target’s Willpower). Success renders 
the victim so terrified that he falls into a whimpering catatonic 
state, unable to take any actions except curling into a fetal 


position and gibbering incoherently. The condition lasts for a 


length of time determined by the number of successes rolled. Ifthe 
victim’s life is directly threatened (by assault, impending sunrise, 
etc.), the poor wretch may attempt to break out of his paralysis 
with a Courage roll (difficulty of the character's Intimidation + 
3). One success ends the paralysis. A botch sends the victim into 
a continuous state of Rétschreck for the rest of the night. 

No. of Successes Duration 
1 success Three turns 
2 successes Five minutes 
3 successes Remainder of the scene 
4 successes One hour 
5 successes Rest of the night 
6+ successes A week (or more, at Story- 


teller discretion) 


© © © Spark or RAGE 


A vampire possessing this power can shorten tempers 


and bring old grudges and irritations to the boiling point with 
a minimum of effort. Spark of Rage causes disagreements and 
fights, and can even send other vampires into frenzy 
System: The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge (dif 
ficulty 8). The number of individuals affected is determined by 
how many successes are rolled. If this power is used in a crowd, 
those affected are the people in closest proximity to the charac- 
ter. A vampire affected by this power must spend a Willpower 


point or roll Self-Control (difficulty equal to the character's 


Bevouo UNpexstanpinc:Apvanceo Dise 


95 


Manipulation + Subterfuge); failure sends the target into a 
frenzy. A botch sends the character into immediate frenzy. 
No. of Targets Affected 

Two people 

Four people 

Bight people 

20 people 

Everyone in the character's 
immediate vicinity 


No. of Successes 
1 success 

2 successes 
3 successes 
4 successes 
5 successes 


© 000008 COOPERATION 

Any elder knows that Kindred are the most difficult beings 
in existence to force to work together. Peaceful coexistence is 
notacommon tenet of vampiricsociety. With that in mind, this 
power can be used to nudge those affected by it into a fragile 
spirit of camaraderie. Some cynical (or realistic) Ventrue claim 
that their clan's mastery of this Presence effect is the sole reason 
that anything is ever accomplished in Camarilla conclaves. 
Ventrue who voice this opinion too loudly also tend to have 
numerous chances to test just how effective Cooperation is. 

System: To invoke Cooperation, the player rolls Charisma 
+ Leadership (difficulty 8). The number of individuals affected is 
determined by how many successes the player rolls. Cooperation 
lasts for the remainder of the scene in which it is invoked, though 
particularly strong users of Presence may create longer-lasting 
feelings of non-aggression (at Storyteller discretion) by spending 
Willpower. While this power is in affect, all those under its 
influenceare more favorably disposed toward oneanotherand are 
more willing to extend trust or make cooperative plans. 

Forthe mostpart, playersshouldsimply roleplay Cooper 
effects, butthere aresome concrete ramificationsto the pow 
Self-Control difficulties to resist frenzy in response to insults from 
within the target group are decreased by three. The game effects of 
appropriate Intolerance Flaws are removed, and Hatred Flaws are 
treated as if they were Intolerances. 

No. of Successes No. of Targets Affected 
Two people 

Four people 

Eight people 

20 people 

Everyone in the character's 
immediate vicinity 


1 success 

2 successes 
3 successes 
4 successes 


5 successes 


@0000008 IRONCLAD COMMAND 

Any individual can normally resist the powers of Pres- 
ence for a brief time through an effort of will. Some elder 
Toreador and Ventrue have developed such force of person- 
ality that their powers of Presence cannot be resisted without 
truly heroic efforts. 

System: This power is always in effect once it has been 
learned. A mortal may not spend Willpower to resist the 
character's Presence (For purposes of this power, the definition 
of “mortal” does not include supernaturally active humans such 
as ghouls, hedge magicians or those who possess True Faith). A 


supernatural being must roll Willpower (difficulty of the 
character's Willpower + 2; difficulties over 10 mean that the roll 
cannot even be attempted) the first time he attempts to spend 
a Willpower point to overcome the character's Presence. He 
may then spenda maximum number of Willpower pointsfor the 
rest of the scene equal to the number of successes he rolled. A 
botch doubles the character’s Presence dice pools against the 
hapless victim for the remainder of the night. 


200000000 HurseortHe Criy 

A Methuselah who has developed her Presence to this 
terrifying degree can control the emotional climate of the 
entire region around her, up to the size of a large city. This 
power is always in effect on a low level, attuning those who 
dwell in the area to the Methuselah’s mood, but it can also be 
used to project a specific emotion into the minds of every 
being in the area. Pulse of the City affects residents much 
more strongly than tourists, and also has a significant impact 
on those individuals who might be elsewhere at the time but 
who still have strong ties to the affected city. 

System: The player spends a Willpower point and rolls 
Charisma + Area Knowledge (difficulty 10, and the Area Knowl- 
edge used must apply to the city or region in which the power is 
being used). The number of successes indicates how long mortal 
residents are affected by the particular emotion that the character 
broadcasts; visitors with no ties to the area and supernatural beings 
areaffected foraduration onesuccessstep lower. The charactercan 
choose to terminate this effect at any time before it expires. 

No. of Successes Duration 
One minute 
10 minutes 
One hour 


1 success 
2 successes 
3 successes 
One day 

5 successes One week 


Pulse of the City can be used by a character in torpor. 


PROTEAN 


©0000 EARTH CONTROL 

An Earth Melded character with this power is no longer 
confined to the resting place she selected the night before. 
She can pass through the ground as if it were water, “swim- 
ming” through the earth itself. Some elders use thisasa means 
of unobstructed and unobtrusive travel, while others find ita 
highly effective means of maneuvering in combat. 

System: This power is in effect whenever a character is 
Earth Melded, with no additional roll or expenditure neces- 
sary. While in the ground, a vampire can propel herself at half 
of her normal walking speed. She cannot see, but gains a 
supernatural awareness of her underground surroundings out 
toa range of 50 yards. Water, rock, tree roots and cement all 
effectively block her progress; she can only move through 
earth and substances of similar consistency, such as sand or 


4 successes 


THE GUIDE 10 THE CAMARILLA 


% 


fine gravel. If two or more vampires attempt to interact 
underground, only direct physical contact is possible. All 
damage dice pools in this case are halved, and dodge and parry 
attempts are at -2 difficulty. If an underground chase takes 
place, it is resolved with an extended contested Strength + 
Athletics roll (see p. 194 of Vampire: The Masquerade). 


© 00086 Fi ESHOFMARBLE 

Tales have longspoken of the combat prowess of Gangrel 
elders and of their inhuman resilience. Poorly informed 
individuals believe the stories of swords shattering and bullets 
flattening against immortal skin to be exaggerated reports of 
the effects of Fortitude. Those with more reliable information 
know that such tales result from encounters with Gangrel 
who have developed Flesh of Marble. The skin of an elder 
with Flesh of Marble becomes in essence a sort of flexible 
stone, although it appears no different than normal skin and 
muscle. Indeed, flesh transformed thus even feels normal to 
1 casual touch 

System: The player spends three blood points to acti 
vate Flesh of Marble, which goes into effect instantly. The 


effects of the power then last for the remainder of the scene 
While the power is functioni he damage dice pools of all 
physical attacks made against the character are halved (round 


down). That includes assaults made with fists, claws, swords, 
firearms and explosions, but not fire, sunlight or magic 
(unless the magical effect in question is a direct physical 
attack, such as a rock hurled by means of Movement of the 
Mind). Additionally, while this power is in effect, a character 
can attempt to parry melee attacks with his bare hands as if 


he were holding some form of weapon. 


@eeeee Restore THe MORTAL VISAGE 


The Gangrel are of two opinions regarding this power. 
Those who are politically active, or who associate extensively 
with mortals, view itas both necessary and acceptable. Those 
Kindred who embrace their more feral sides, however, see it 
as a disgusting defiance of the very nature of vampirism. The 
schism comes because the power allows the elder who pos- 
sesses it to temporarily return his appearance to what it was 
before the Embrace, removing the bestial features he has 
accumulated over the centuries. Restore the Mortal Visage 
has only been displayed by Gangrel; several Nosferatu elders 
have attempted to develop it, and it is whispered that they 
met spontaneous, grotesque Final Deaths when they at- 
tempted to take their mortal forms, 

System: The player spends three blood points and a Will- 
power point and rolls Willpower (difficulty 8). Success restores 
the character's appearance to what it was just before he was first 
Embraced, erasing all animalistic features gained from frenzies 
al Attributes, return- 


The power also affects the character's S 
ing them to their original values (assuming those were higher 
than the character's current ratings). A botched Willpower roll 
earns the character another animal feature. Restore the Mortal 
Visage lasts for the remainder of the scene once activated. 


Powers Beono Unos 


NDING: ADVAN 


97 


©0000 oo SHADEOFTHE BEAST S WRATH 

Users of this power are often mistaken for Tzimisce em- 
ploying the Vicissitude power Horrid Form. The base effect is 
similar, although no Gangrel who possesses this power takes 
such asuggestion lightly. A vampire employing this power shifts 
into a huge, monstrous form, gaining half her height again and 
tripling her weight. Her overall shape flows into an unholy 
amalgamation of her own form and that of the animal she feels 
the closest kinship to (wolves, rats and great cats are the most 
common manifestations, though ravens, serpents, bats and 
stranger beasts have been reported). The vampire’s new shape 
does bear some vague resemblance to the war-forms of the 
werecreatures, but the difference quickly becomes apparent. 

System: The player spends three blood points, the expen- 
diture of which triggers the change. The character's 
transformation takes three turns (the player may spend addi- 
tional blood points to reduce this time ata cost of one point per 
turn of reduction). Once transformed, the character remains in 
this form until sunrise or until she shifts back voluntarily. 

The precise Traits of this form are determined when'the 
character first learns this power, as is the animal whose appear- 
ance the character takes on. The vampire’s new form adds a 
total of seven dots added to the character's Physical Attributes. 
At least one dot must go into each Physical Attribute, meaning 
that no more than five can go into any one (soa character could 
have +5 Strength, +1 Dexterity, and +1 Stamina, but not +2 
Strength and +5 Dexterity). These bonuses are always the same 
once they are selected; a different allocation requires that the 
character buy this power a second time and thus purchase 
another alternate form. Additionally, the character inflicts 
Strength + two dice of aggravated damage with both bite and 
claw attacks when in monstrous form. She also gains an extra 
Hurt health level, and doubles her normal running speed. 
Finally, the character's perceptions are also heightened. She is 
assumed to have both the Auspex power Heightened Senses 
and the Protean power Eyes of the Beast after transformation, 
with all of the benefits and drawbacks of each. 

This form does carry two drawbacks. The first is a lack of 
communication ability. The character's Social Attributes all 
drop to 1, or to 0 if they already were 1 (except when making 
Intimidation rolls) when the transformation occurs. The second 
problem that a character in this form encounters is the suddenly 
heightened power of her Beast. All difficulties of rolls to resist 
frenzy are increased by two for the duration of the power’s effect, 
and the player may not spend Willpower points on such rolls. 


©0000 oo SpectRAL BODY 

This powerful variation on Mist Form (Protean 5) allows a 
Gangrel to take a shape with most of the advantages of the lesser 
power but fewer of the disadvantages. A vampire who assumes 
Spectral Form retains his normal appearance, but becomes com- 
pletely insubstantial. He walks through walls and bullets with 
equal ease, and can pass through the flooron which he stands ifhe 
choosesto. Although hislungsare no longersolid, the vampirecan 


still speak, a fact in which some elders of the Daughters of 
Cacophony bloodline have expressed great interest. 

System: The player spends three blood points. The transfor- 
mation takes one tum to complete, and lasts for the rest of the 
night unless the character decides to reverse it. When the power 
takes hold, the character becomes completely insubstantial, but 
remains fully visible. Henceforth, he is unaffected by any physical 
attacks, and he doubles his dice pool to soak damage from fire and 
sunlight. The vampire may even ignore gravity ifhe chooses todo 
so, rising and sinking through solid objects if he does not wish to 
stand on them (although he may move no faster than his normal 
walking speed while “flying” in this manner). While in this form, 
the character may also use any Disciplines that do not require 
physical contact or a physical body. On the down side, while in 
Spectral Form a vampire can physically manipulate his environ- 
ment only through the use of Movement of the Mind. 


@eeeeeee DURIFY THE IMPALED BREAST 

Camarilla records indicate that a disproportionately 
small number of Gangrel elders were killed by mortals and 
anarchs during the Inquisition and the Anarch Revolt. This 
power is one of the primary reasons for the survival of these 
Kindred. Until recently, the clan practiced a less powerful 
version of Purify the Impaled Breast, one which only allowed 
very limited movement. In recent nights, knowledge of a 
long-lost, stronger version of the power has been dissemi- 
nated through the clan. An elder Gangrel with this Protean 
power can expel foreign objects from her body with great 
force, even excising stakes that transfix her heart. 

System: The player spends three blood points and rolls 
Willpower (difficulty 6, or 8 if the vampire is paralyzed by an 
object impaling her heart). One success is sufficient to remove 
all foreign objects and substances from the character's body. 
Dirt, bullets, even stakes through the heart are instantly and 
violently removed. The larger the object, the farther away it is 
hurled by this power. Objects expelled thus are considered to 
have an attack dice pool of three for any bystanders, and to 
have a dice pool of one to four (depending on size) for damage. 

Ifthe character wishes to leave an object in his body (such as 
a prosthetic limb) or partially in (expelling a stake from his heart 
but leaving it sticking out of his breastbone as a ruse), the player 
must spend a Willpower point when this power is activated. 


a Inwarp Focus 


This power has no outwardly visible effects whatsoever. 
Indeed, its very existence is unknown outside those dozen or 
so Gangrel Methuselahs who have developed it. The internal 
effects of this razor-sharp honing of Protean, however, are in 
some ways more dramatic than any external manifestation. A 
vampire with this power can heighten the efficiency of his 
undead body's internal workings to levels undreamed of by 
lesser Kindred, withstanding inconceivable amounts of in- 
jury and moving with blinding speed and shattering strength. 

System: The player spends four blood points to activate this 
power and an additional two blood points for every tum past the 


Tre Gunt 10 THE CAMARLLA 


%8 


first that Inward Focus is maintained. There are three effects of this 
power. First, the character gains a number of extra actions during 
each turn equal to his unmodified (by alternate forms or blood 
point expenditure) Dexterity score. Second, the damage of his 
physical attacks is increased by three dice per dice pool. Finally, all 
damage inflicted on the character is halved and rounded down 
after the soak roll is made (so an attack that inflicts five health 
levels after soak is reduced to two health levels). 

This power may be used in conjunction with other Protean 
powers that modify the character's combat abilities, such as Shape 
of the Beast’s Wrath (above). It may also be used in conjunction 
with Celerity, Fortitude and Potence, turning a Gangrel who has 
mastered this power into a truly terrifying opponent. 


THAUMATURGY 


The following thaumaturgical paths are practiced pri- 
marily by Camarilla Tremere thaumaturges. They may be 
available to other thaumaturgical practitioners, such as 
Tremere antitribu or Assamites, at the Storyteller’s discretion, 
butare highly uncommon and may be imperfectly taught (+1 
difficulty toall uses of the path). All ofthe following pathsuse 
the basic system described in Vampire: The Masquerade: the 
player spends a blood point and rolls Willpower (difficulty of 
the power’s level + 3). A failure indicates that the blood 
magic does not work. A botch indicates that the character 
loses a permanent Willpower point. 


ELEMENTAL MASTERY 


This path allows a thaumaturge limited control over and 
communion with inanimate objects. Mistakenly believed by 
many tobe related to the four basic elements (earth, air, fireand 
water), this path is actually closer toan amalgamation of Spirit 
Thaumaturgy and the Path of Conjuring. Elemental Mastery 
can only be used to affect the unliving —a vampire could not 
cause a tree to walk by using Animate the Unmoving, for 
instance. Thaumaturges who seek mastery over living things 
generally study Biothaumaturgical Experimentation (see Dirty 
Secrets of the Black Hand) or the Green Path (below). 


© ELEMENTAL STRENGTH 

The vampire can draw upon the strength and resilience 
of the earth, or of the objects around him, to increase his 
physical prowess without the need for large amounts of blood. 

System: The player allocates a total of three temporary 
bonus dots between the character’s Strength and Stamina. 
The number of successes on the roll to activate the power are 
the number of turns these dots remain. The player may spend 
a Willpower point to increase this duration by one turn. This 
power cannot be “stacked” — one application must expire 
before the next can be made. 


© è Woopen TONGUES 

A vampire may speak, albeit in limited fashion, with 
the spirit of any inanimate object. The conversation may 
not be incredibly interesting, as most rocks and chairs have 


limited concern for what occurs around them, but the 
vampire can get at least a general impression of what the 
subject has “experienced.” Note that events which are 
significant to a vampire may not be the same events that 
interest a lawn jockey. 

System: The number of successes dictates 
and relevance of the information that the character receives. 
One success may yield a boulder’s memory of a forest fire, 
while three may indicate that it remembers a shadowy figure 
running past, and five will cause the rock to relate a precise 
description of a local Gangrel. 


the amount 


© © © ANIMATE THE UNMOVING 

Objects affected by this power move as the vampire using 
it dictates. An object cannot take an action that would be 
completely inconceivable for something with its form — for 
instance, a door could not leap from its hinges and carry 
someone across a street. However, seemingly solid objects 
can become flexible within reason: Barstools can run with 
their legs, guns can twist out of their owners’ hands or fire 
while holstered, and statues can move like normal humans. 


System: This power requires the expenditure ofa Willpower 
point with less than four successes on the roll. Each use of this 
power animates one object; the thaumaturge may simultaneously 
control a number of animate objects equal to his Intelligence 
rating. Objects animated by this power stay animated as long as 
they are within the caster’s line of sight or up to an hour. 


© 000 ELEMENTAL FORM 

The vampire can take the shape ofany inanimate object 
of a mass roughly equal to her own. A desk, a statue or a 
bicycle would be feasible, but a house or a pen would be 
beyond this power’s capacity. 

System: The number of successes determines how com- 
pletely the character takes the shape she wishes to counterfeit. 
At least three successes are required for the character to use 
hersenses or Disciplines while in her altered form. This power 
lasts for the remainder of the night, although the character 
may return to her normal form at will. 


©0000 SUMMON ELEMENTAL 

A vampire may summon one of the traditional spirits of 
the elements: a salamander (fire), a sylph (air), a gnome 
(earth) or an undine (water). Some Tremere claim to have 
contacted elemental spirits of glass, electricity, blood and 
even atomic energy, but such reports remain unconfirmed 
(even as their authors are summoned to Vienna for question- 
ing). The thaumaturge may choose what type of elemental he 
wishes to summon and command. 

System: The character must be near some quantity of 
the classical element corresponding to the spirit he wishes 
to invoke. The spirit invoked may or may not actually 
follow the caster’s instructions once summoned, but gener- 
ally will at least pay rough attention to what it’s being told 
todo. The number of successes gained determines the power 
level of the elemental. 


Poweas BEYOND LINDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DISCIPLINES 


9 


The elemental has three dots in all Physical and Mental 
Attributes. One dot may be added to one of the elemental’s 
Physical Attributes for each success gained by the caster on 
the initial roll. The Storyteller should determine the 
elemental’s Abilities, attacks and damage, and any special 
powers it has related to its element. 

Once the elemental has been summoned, the 
thaumaturge must exert control over it. The more powerful 
the elemental, the more difficult a task this is. The player rolls 
Manipulation + Occult (difficulty of the number of successes 
scored on the casting roll + 4, and the player may substitute 
Spirit Lore for Occult if he so desires). 

Result 
The elemental immediately 
attacks the thaumaturge. 


No. of Successes 
Botch 

Failure The elemental goes free and may 
attack anyone or leave the scene 
at the Storyteller’s discretion. 

1 success The elemental probably does 
not attack its summoner. 

The elemental behaves favorably 
toward the summoner and may 
perform a service in exchange for 
payment (determined by the 
Storyteller). 


2 successes 


3 successes The elemental performs one 
service, within reason. 

4 successes The elemental performs any one 
task for the caster that does not 
jeopardize its own 
The elemental performsany task 
that the caster sets for it, even 
one that may take several nights 
to complete or that places its 
existence at risk. 


THe GREEN DATH 


The Green Path deals with the manipulation of plant matter 
of all sorts. Anything more complex than an algae bloom can 
theoretically be controlled through the appropriate application of 
this path. Ferns, roses, dandelions and even ancient redwoods are 
all equally valid targets for this path’s powers, and living and dead 
plant matter are equally affected. While not as immediately 
impressive as some other more widely practiced paths, the Green 
Path (sometimes disparagingly referred to as “Botanical Mastery”) 
is as subtle and powerful as the natural world which it affects. 

The origins of the Green Path are thought to lie with the 
Order of the Naturists (see Clanbook: Tremere), a druidic 
sect within Clan Tremere. Most practitioners of the path are 
members of the order, and those who are not were more than 
likely mentored by one. According to those who are familiar 
with Tremere history, the Green Path is a blood magic-based 
derivation of some magickal workings formerly practiced by 


istence. 
5 successes 


House Diedne, an order of mortal mages destroyed by the 
Tremere during the Dark Ages. 


© HerBAL WISDOM 
With but a touch, a vampire can commune with the 
spirit of a plant. Conversations held in this manner are often 
cryptic but rewarding — the wisdom and experience of the 
spirits of some trees surpasses that of the oracles of legend. 
Crabgrass, on the other hand, rarely has much insight to offer, 
but might reveal the face of the last person who trod upon it. 
System: The number of successes rolled determines the 
amount of information that can be gained from the contact. 
Depending on the precise information that the vampire 
seeks, the Storyteller might require the player to roll Intelli- 
gence + Occult or Intelligence + Intuition in order to 
interpret the results of the communication. 
No. of Successes Result 
Fleeting cryptic impressions 
One or two clear images 
Aconciseanswer toasimple query 
A detailed response to one ormore 
complex questions 
Thesum total of the plant-spirit’s 
knowledge on a given subject 


1 success 
2 


successes 
3 successes 


4 successes 


5 successes 


eesp 


5 
D THE SEASON 5 DASSING 

This power allows a thaumaturge to accelerate a plant’s 
growth, causing roses to bloom in a matter of minutes or trees 


to shoot up from saplings overnight. Alternately, she can 
speed a plant’s death and decay, withering grass and crum- 
bling wooden stakes with but a touch. 

System: The character touches the target plant. The 
player rolls normally, and the number of successes determines 
the amount of growth or decay. One success gives the plant 
a brief growth spurt or simulates the effects of harsh weather, 
while three noticeably enlarge or wither it. With five suc- 
cesses, a full-grown plant springs from a seed or crumbles to 
dust in a few minutes, and a tree sprouts fruit or begins 
decaying almost instantaneously. If this power is used in 
combat, three successes are needed to render a wooden 
weapon completely useless. Two successes suffice to weaken 
it, while five cause it to disintegrate in the wielder's hand. 


© © © DANCE OF VINES, 

The thaumaturge can animate a mass of vegetation up to his 
own size, using it for utilitarian or combat purposes with equal 
ease. Leaves can walk along a desktop, ivy can act asa scribe, and 
jungle creepers can strangle opponents. Intruders should beware 
of Tremere workshops that harbor potted rowan saplings. 

System: Any total amount of vegetation with a mass less 
than or equal to the character’s own may be animated 
through this power. The plants stay active for one turn per 
success scored on the roll, and are under the complete control 
of the character. If used for combat purposes, the plants have 
Strength and Dexterity ratings equal to half the character's 


The GUDE T0 THe CAMARILLA 


100 


current Willpower (rounded down) and Brawl ratings one 
lower than that of the character. 

Dance of Vines cannot make plants uproot themselves 
and go stomping about. Even the most energetic vegetation 
is incapable of pulling out of the soil and walking under the 
effect of this power. However, 150 pounds of kudzu can cover 


a considerable area all by itself... 


@ 000 VERDANT HAVEN 

This power weaves a temporary shelter out of a sufficient 
amount of plant matter. In addition to providing physical 
protection from the elements (and even sunlight), the Verdant 
Haven also establishes a mystical barrier which is nigh-impass- 
able to anyone the caster wishes to exclude. A Verdant Haven 
appears as a six-foot-tall hemisphere of interlocked branches, 
leaves and vines with no discernible opening, and even to the 
casual observer it appears to be an unnatural construction. 
Verdant Havens are rumored to have supernatural healing 
properties, but no Kindred have reported experiencing such 
benefits from a stay in one. 

System: A character must be standing in a heavily 
vegetated area to use this power. The Verdant Haven springs 
up around the character over the course of three turns. Once 
the haven is established, anyone wishing to enter the haven 
without the caster’s permission must achieve more than the 
caster’s original number of successes on a single roll of Wits 
+ Survival (difficulty equal to the caster’s Willpower). The 
haven lasts until the next sunset, or until the caster dispels or 
leaves it. If the caster scored four or more successes, the haven 
is impenetrable to sunlight unless physically breached. 


©0000 AWAKEN THE FOREST GIANTS 

Entire trees can be animated by a master of the Green 
Path. Ancient oaks can be temporarily given the gift of 
movement, pulling their roots from the soil and shaking the 
ground with their steps. While not as versatile as elementals 
or other summoned spirits, trees brought to ponderous life via 
this power display awesome strength and resilience. 

System: The character touches the tree to be animated. The 
playerspendsa blood pointand rolls normally. Ifthe roll succeeds, 
the player must spend a blood point for every success. The tree 

ys animated for one tum per success rolled; once this time 

expires, the tree puts its roots down wherever it stands and cannot 
be animated again until the next night. While animated, the tree 
follows the character's verbal commands to the best of its ability. 
Ananimated tree has Strength and Stamina equal to the caster’s 
Thaumaturgy rating, Dexterity 2 and a Brawl rating equal to the 
caster’s own. It is immune to bashing damage, and all non- 
aggravated lethal damage dice pools are halved due to its size. 

Once the animating energy leavesa tree, it puts down roots 
immediately, regardless of what it is currently standing on. A 
tree re-establishing itself in the soil can punch through concrete 
and asphalt to find nourishing dirt and water underneath, 
meaning that it is entirely possible for a particularly sluggish 
sycamore to set up shop in the middle of a road without any 


warning. Abuses or misuses of this power can very easily lead to 
breaches of the Masquerade, and the thaumaturge who leaves 
a row of maples across a major traffic artery is unlikely to have 
the opportunity to make the same mistake twice. 


NEpTUNE’S MIGHT 


Vampires are rarely associated with the ocean in most 
mythologies, and most Kindred have nothing to do with 
water in large quantities simply because they have no reason 
todo so. Nevertheless, Neptune’s Might has enjoyed a small, 
but devoted, following for centuries among Camarilla 
thaumaturges. This path is based primarily around the ma- 
nipulation of standing water, although some of its more 
disturbing effects depart from this principle. 

Once a character reaches the third level of Neptune's 
Might, the player may choose to specialize in either fresh 
water or salt water. Such specialization lowers all Neptune's 
Might difficulties by one when dealing with the chosen 
medium but raises them by one when dealing with the 
opposite. Blood is considered neither fresh nor salty for this 
purpose, and difficulties in manipulating it are unaffected. 


© Eves or THE SEA 

The thaumaturge may peer intoa body of water and view 
events that have transpired on, in or around it from the 
water's perspective. Some older practitioners of this art claim 
that the vampire communes with the spirits of the waters 
when using this power; younger Kindred scoff at such claims. 

System: The number of successes rolled determines how 
far into the past the character can look. 

No. of Successes Range of Effect 

1 success One day 
One week 
One month 
One year 
10 years 

The Storyteller may require a Perception + Occult roll for 
the character to discern very small details in the transmitted 
images. This power can only be used on standing water; lakes and 
puddles qualify, butoceans, rivers, sewers and wineglassesdo not. 


2 successes 
3 successes 
4 successes 
5 successes 


© © DRISON OF WATER 

The thaumaturge can command a sufficiently large quan- 
tity of water to animate itselfand imprison a subject. This power 
requires a significant amount of fluid to be fully effective, 
although even a few gallons can be used to shape chains of 
animated water. Mortals subjected to this power’s effects can 
drown if the thaumaturge is not careful (or if she so desires it), 
and even vampires can be crushed by extreme pressure thus 
brought to bear. 

System: The number of successes scored on the roll is the 
number of successes the victim must score on a Strength roll 
(difficulty 8; Potence adds to successes) to break free. A 
subject may be held in only one prison ata time, although the 


Powers Bevon UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DISCIPLINES 


101 


thaumaturge is free to invoke multiple uses of this power upon 
separate victims and may dissolve her own prisons at will. 

If a sufficient quantity of water (at least a bathtub’s 
worth) is not present, the difficulty of the Willpower roll to 
activate this power is raised by one. 


© è è BLOODTO WATER 

The thaumaturge has now attained enough power over 
water that she can transmute other liquids to this basic 
element. The most commonly seen use of this power is as an 
assault; with but a touch, the victim’s blood transforms to 
water, weakening vampires and killing mortals in moments. 

System: The character must touch her intended victim. 
The player rolls normally. Each success converts one of the 
victim’s blood points to water. One success kills a mortal 
within minutes. Vampires who lose blood points to this power 
also suffer dice pool penalties as if they had received an 
equivalent number of health levels of injury. The water left in 
the target’s system by this attack evaporates out at a rate of one 
blood point’s worth per hour, but the lost blood does not return. 

At the Storyteller’s discretion, other liquids may be 
turned to water with this power (the difficulty for such an 
action is reduced by one unless the substance is particularly 
dangerous or magical in nature). The character must still 
touch the substance or its container to use this power. 


eeo FLOWING WALL 

Tales of vampires’ inability to cross running water may 
have derived from garbled accounts of this power in action. 
The thaumaturge can animate water to an even greater degree 
than is possible with the use of Prison of Water, commanding 
it to rise up to form a barrier impassable to almost any being. 

System: The character touches the surface of a standing 
body of water; the player spends three Willpower points and 
the normal required blood point and rolls normally. Successes 
are applied to both width and height of the wall; each success 
“buys” 10 feet in one dimension. The wall may be placed 
anywhere within the character's line of sight, and must be 
formed in a straight line. The wall lasts until the next sunrise. 
It cannot be climbed, though it can be flown over. To pass 
through the barrier, any supernatural being (including beings 
trying to pass the wall on other levels of existence) must score 
at least three successes on a single Willpower roll (difficulty 9). 


© © © 0 0 DEHYDRATE 

At this level of mastery, the thaumaturge can directly attack 
living and unliving targets by removing the water from their 
bodies. Victims killed by this power leave behind hideous mum- 
mified corpses. This power can also be used for less aggressive 
purposes, such asdryingout wetclothes—orevaporating puddles 
to keep other practitioners of this path from using them. 

System: This power can be used on any target in the 
character's line of sight. The player rolls normally; the victim 
resists with a roll of Stamina + Fortitude (difficulty 9). Each 
success gained by the thaumaturge translates into one health 


level of lethal damage inflicted on the victim. This injury 
cannot be soaked (the resistance roll replaces soak for this 
attack) but can be healed normally. Vampires lose blood points 
instead of health levels, though ifa vampire has no blood points 
this attack inflicts health level loss as it would against a mortal. 
The victim of this attack mustalso roll Courage (difficulty of the 
number of successes scored by the thaumaturge + 3) to be able 
to act on the turn following the attack; failure means he is 
overcome with agony and can do nothing. 


THe DATH OF CORRUPTION 


The origins of this path are hotly debated among those 
whoare familiar with its intricacies. One theory holds that its 
secrets were taught to the Tremere by demons and that use of 
it brings the practitioner dangerously close to the infernal 
powers. A second opinion has been advanced that the Path 
of Corruption isa holdover from the days when Clan Tremere 
was still mortal. The third primary theory, and the most 
disturbing to the Tremere, is that the path originated with the 
Followers of Set, and that knowledge of its workings was sold 
to the Tremere for an unspecified price. This last rumor is, of 
course, vehemently denied by the Tremere, which automati- 
cally makes it the favorite topic of discussion when the matter 
comes up. 

The Path of Corruption is primarily a mentally and 
spiritually oriented path centered on influencing the psyches 
of other individuals. It can be used neither to issue commands 
like Dominate nor to change emotions of the moment like 
Presence. Rather, it produces a gradual and subtle twisting of 
thesubject’sactions, morals and thought processes. This path 
deals intimately with deception and dark desires, and those 
who work through it must understand the hidden places of 
the heart. Accordingly, no character may have a higher 
rating in the Path of Corruption than he has in Subterfuge. 


© CONTRADICT 

The thaumaturge can interrupt a subject’s thought pro- 
cesses, forcing the victim to reverse his current course of 
action. An archon may be caused to execute a prisoner she 
was about to exonerate and release; a mortal lover might 
switch from gentle and caring to sadistic and demanding in 
the middle of an encounter. The results of Contradict are 
never precisely known to the thaumaturge in advance, but 
they always take the form of a more negative action than the 
subject had originally intended to perform. 

System: This power may be used on any subject within 
the character's line of sight. The player rolls as per normal. 
The target rolls Perception + Subterfuge (difficulty of the 
number of successes scored by the thaumaturge + 2). Two 
successes allow the subject to realize that she is being influ- 
enced by some outside source. Three successes let her pinpoint 
the source of the effect. Four successes give her a moment of 
hesitation, neither performing her original action nor its 
inverse, while five allow her to carry through with the 
original action. 


Tre GUIDE TO THE CAMARA 


102 


The Storyteller dictates what the subject's precise reac- 
tion to this power is. Contradict cannot be used in combat or 
to affect other actions (Storyteller’s discretion) that are 
mainly physical and reflexive. 


© © SUBVERT 

This power follows the same principle as does Contra- 
dict, the release of a subject’s dark, self-destructive side. 
However, Subvert’s effects are longer-lasting than the mo- 
mentary flare of Contradiction. Under the influence of this 
power, victims act on their own suppressed temptations, 
pursuing agendas that their morals or self-control would 
forbid them to follow under normal circumstances. 

System: This power requires the character to make eye 
contact with the intended victim. The player rolls normally 
The target resists with a roll of Perception + Subterfuge 
(difficulty of the target’s Manipulation + Subterfuge). If the 
thaumaturge scores more successes, the victim becomes in- 
clined to follow a repressed, shameful desire for the length of 
time described below 
No. of Successes Duration of Effect 
1 success Five minutes. 
2 successes One hour 
3 successes One night 
4 successes Three nights 
5 successes One week 

The Storyteller determines the precise desire or agenda 
that the victim follows. It should be in keeping with the 
Psychological Flaws that she possesses or with the negative 
aspects of her Nature (for example, a Loner desiring isolation to 
such an extent that she becomes violent if forced to attend a 
social function). The subject should not become fixated on 
following this new agenda at all times, but should occasionally 
be forced to spend a Willpower point if the opportunity to 


succumb arises and she wishes to resist the impulse. 


@ © © Dissociate 

“Divide and conquer” isa maxim that is well-understood by 
the Tremere, and Dissociate is a powerful tool with which to 
divide the clan’s enemies. This power is used to break the social 
ties of interpersonal relationships. Even the most passionate 
affair or the oldest friendship can be cooled through use of 
Dissociate, and weaker personal ties can be destroyed altogether. 

System: The character must touch the target. The player 
rollsnormally. The target resists with a Willpower roll (difficulty 
of the thaumaturge’s Manipulation + Empathy). The victim 
loses three dice from all Social rolls for a period of time deter- 
mined by the number of successes gained by the thaumaturge. 
No. of Successes Duration of Effect 
success Five minutes 


successes One hour 


1 


successes One night 
successes Three nights 


successes One week 


Powers Bevonn UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DiscipLNes 
103 


This penalty applies to all rolls that rely on Social At- 
tributes, even those required for the use of Disciplines. If this 
power isused ona character who has participated in the Sabbat 
Vaulderie ora similar ritual, that character's Vinculum ratings 
are reduced by three for the duration of Dissociate’s effect. 

Dissociate’s primary effect falls under roleplaying rather 
than game mechanics. Victims of this power should be played 
as withdrawn, suspicious and emotionally distant. The Story- 
teller should feel free to require a Willpower point expenditure 
for a player who does not follow these guidelines. 


eee ADDICTION 

This power is a much stronger and more potentially damag- 
ing form of Subvert. Addiction creates just that in the victim. By 
simply exposing the target to a particular sensation, substance or 
action, the thaumaturge creates a powerful psychological depen- 
dence. Many Tremere ensure that their victims become addicted 
to substances or thrills that only the Warlocks can provide, thus 
creating both asource of incomeand potential blackmail material. 

System: The subject must encounter or be exposed to 
the sensation, substance or action to which the character 
wants to addict him. The thaumaturge then touches his 
target. The player rolls normally; the victim resists with a 
Self-Control roll (difficulty equal to the number of successes 
scored by the thaumaturge + 3). Failure gives the subject an 
instant addiction to the object desired by the character. 

An addicted character must get his fix at least once a night. 
Every night that he goes without satisfying his desire imposes a 
cumulative penalty of one die on all of his dice pools (reduced toa 
minimum ofonedie). The victim must roll Self-Control (difficulty 
8) every time he is confronted with the object of his addiction and 
wishes to keep from indulging. Addiction lasts for a number of 
weeks equal to the thaumaturge’s Manipulation score. 

An individual may try to break the effects of Addiction. 
This requires an extended Self-Control roll (difficulty of the 
thaumaturge’s Manipulation + Subterfuge), with one roll made 
per night. The addict must accumulate a number of successes 
equal to three times the number of successes scored by the 
thaumaturge. The victim may not indulge in his addiction over 
the time needed to accumulate these successes. If he does so, all 
accumulated successes are lost and he must begin anew on the 
next night. Note that the Self-Control dice pool is reduced 
every night that the victim goes without feeding his addiction. 


© © © è è DEDENDENCE 

Many former pawns of Clan Tremere claim to have felt a 
strange sensation similar to depression when not in the pres- 
ence of their masters. This is usually attributed to the blood 
bond, but is often the result of the thaumaturge’s mastery of 
Dependence. The final power of the Path of Corruption 
enables the vampire to tie her victim’s soul to her own, 
engendering feelings of lethargy and helplessness when the 
victim is not in her presence or acting to further her desires. 

System: The character engages the target in conversation. 
Theplayerrollsnormally. The victim rolls Self-Control (difficulty 


of the number of successes scored by the thaumaturge + 3). Failure 
means that the victim's psyche has been subtly bonded to that of 
the thaumaturge foronenightpersuccessrolled by the thaumaturge. 

Abonded victimisnolesslikely toattack hiscontroller,and 
feels no particular positive emotions toward her. However, he is 
psychologically addicted to her presence, and suffers a one-die 


penalty toall rolls when he isnot around her or performing tasks 
for her. Additionally, he is much less resistant to her commands, 
and his dice pools are halved when he attempts to resist her 
Dominate, Presence or Social rolls. Finally, he isunable toregain 
Willpower when he is not in the thaumaturge’s presence. 


THe DATH OF TECHNOMANCY 


The newest path to be accepted by the Tremere hierarchy 
as part of the clan’s official body of knowledge, the Path of 
Technomancy isa relatively recent innovation. It was developed 
in the latter half of the 20th century, and has not yet spread far 
beyond the North American Pontifices. The path focuses on the 
control of electronic devices, from wristwatches to computers, 
and its proponents maintain that it is a prime example of the 
versatility of Thaumaturgy with regards to a changing world. 
More conservative Tremere, however, state that mixing Tremere 
magic with mortal science borders on treason oreven blasphemy, 
and some European Regents have gone so far as to declare 
knowledge of Technomancy grounds for expulsion from their 
chantries. The Inner Council did approve the introduction of the 
path into the clan's grimoires, but has yet to voice any opinion on 
the conservative opposition to Technomancy. 


© ANALYZE 

Mortals are constantly developing new innovations, and 
any vampire who would work Technomancy must be able to 
understand that upon which he practices his magic. The most 
basic power of this path allows the Tremere to project his 
perceptions intoadevice, granting hima temporary understand- 
ing of its purpose, the principles of its functioning and its means 
of operation. This does not grant permanent knowledge, only a 
momentary flash of insight which fades within minutes. 

System: A character must touch the device in order to 
apply this power. The number of successes rolled determines 
how well the character understands this particular piece of 
equipment. One success allows a basic knowledge (on/offand 
simple functions), while three successes grant competence in 
operating the device, and five successes show the character 
the full range of the device's potential. The knowledge lasts 
for a number of minutes equal to the character's Intelligence. 

This power can also be used to understand a non- 
physical technological innovation — in other words, a new 
piece of computer software — at +2 difficulty. The character 
must touch the computer on which the software is installed 
— simply holding the CD-ROM is not enough. 


© BURNOUT 


It is usually easier to destroy than to create, and sensitive 
electronics are no exception to this rule. Burnout is used to 


The GUIDE TO THe CAMARILLA 


104 


cause a device’s power supply, either internal or external, to 
surge, damaging or destroying the target. Burnout cannot be 
used to directly injure another individual, although the sudden 
destruction of a pacemaker or a car's fuel injection control chip 
can create a definite health hazard. 

System: A character can use this power at a range of up 
to 10 times her Willpower in yards, although a +1 difficulty 
is applied if she is not touching the target item. The number 
of successes determines the extent of the damage. 

No. of Successes Result 

Momentary interruption of operation 
(onetum), butnopermanentdamage. 
Significant loss of function; +1 
difficulty to use using the device 
for the rest of the scene. 

The device breaks and is inoper- 
able until repaired. 

Even after repairs, the device's 
capabilities are diminished 
(permanent +1 difficulty to use). 
The equipment is a total write- 
off; completely unsalvageable. 

Large enough systems, such as mainframe computers or pas- 
sengeraircraft, imposea +2 to +4 difficulty (atStoryteller discretion) 


1 success 


2 successes 


3 successes 


4 successes 


5 successes 


to affect with this power. Additionally, some systems, such as 
military and banking computers, may be hardened against power 
surges and spikes, and thus possess one to five dice (Storyteller 


discretion again) to roll to resist this power. Each successon this roll 

(difficulty 6) takes away one success from the Thaumaturgy roll 
Burnout may be used to destroy electronic data storage, 

which case three successes destroy all information on the target 


item and five erase it beyond any hope of non-magical recovery. 


© © è EncRyYpt/Decrypt 

Electronic security isaparamountconcem of governments 
and corporations alike. Those Tremere who are techno-savvy 
enough to understand the issues at stake have become quite 
enamored of this power, which allows the thaumaturge to 
scramble a device’s controls mystically, making it inaccessible 
to anyone but him. Encrypt/Decrypt also works on electronie 
media; a videotape under the influence of this power displays 
just snow andstatic if played back without the owner’sapproval. 

System: The character touches the device or data container 
which he wishes to encrypt. The player rolls normally. The 
number of successes scored is applied as a difficulty modifier for 
anyone who attempts to use the protected equipment or access 
the scrambled information without the assistance of the charac- 
ter. The thaumaturge can dispel the effectat any time by touching 
the target item; this countermanding costs a point of Willpower. 

This power may also be used to counter another 
thaumaturge’s use of Encrypt/Decrypt. The player rolls at +1 
difficulty; each success negates one of the “owner's.” 

The effects of Encrypt/Decrypt last fora number of weeks 
equal to the character's permanent Willpower rating. 


© © © © Remote Access 

With this power, askilled thaumaturge can bypass the need 
for physical contact to operate a device. This is not a form of 
telekinesis; the vampire doesnot manipulate the item’scontrols, 
but rather touches it directly with the power of his mind. 

System: This power may be used on any electronic device 
within the character's line of sight. The number of successes 
rolled are the maximum number of dice from any relevant 
Ability that the character may use while remotely controlling 
the device. For instance, if Fritz has Computer 5 and scores 
three successes when using Remote Access on an automated 
teller machine, he can only apply three dots of his Computer 
rating to any rolls that he makes through any use the power. 
Remote Access lasts fora number of turns equal to the number 
of successes rolled, and can only be used on one item ata time. 

Ifan item is destroyed while under the effects of Remote Access, 
the character takes five dice of bashing damage due to the shock of 
having his perceptions rudely shunted back into his own body. 


©0000 TELECOMMUTE 

A progressive derivation of Remote Access, Telecommute 
allows a thaumaturge to project her consciousness into the 
globaltelecommunication network, sending her mind through 
satellite uplinks and ISDN lines and fiber-optic phone cables 
atthe speed of light. While immersed in the network 
use any other Technomancy power on the devices with 
which she makes contact. 


he can 


System: The character touches any form of communica- 
tions device: a cellular telephone, network card-equipped 
computer, fax machine or anything else that is connected 
directly or indirectly to the global network. The player rolls 
normally and spends a Willpower point. Telecommute lasts for 
five minutes per success rolled, and may be extended by 10 
tninutes with the expenditure of another Willpower point. The 
number of successes indicates the maximum range that the 
character can project her consciousness away from her body. 
No. of Successes Result 
25 miles 
250 miles 
1000 miles 
5000 miles 
Anywhere in the world, including 
telecommunication satellites 


1 success 

2 successes 
3 successes 
4 successes 


5 successes 


While in the network, the character can apply any other 
Path of Technomancy power to any device or data with which 
she comes in contact. A lossof connection, usually through the 
shutdown or destruction of a part of the network through 
which the character's connection runs, hurls her conscious- 
ness back to her body and inflicts eight dice of bashing damage. 

A character traveling through the Net by means of this 
power can use her Path of Technomancy powers at normal 
difficulty. Using any other abilities or powers while engaged 
thus is done at a +2 difficulty. Furthermore, there are other 
denizens of the Net who may not take kindly to Tremere 


Powers Bevono Unoexstanoinc:Apvancep Disciuines 


105 


AN 


a 
if 


106 


The Gup To THE CAMARILLA 


intrusion, and who may well take steps to remove the riffraff 
from their electronic doorsteps 


Spirit MANIPULATION 


tobe confused with, orperhaps derived fromtheancient 
Path of Spirit Thaumaturgy (see Dark Ages Companion, p. 107), 
Spirit Manipulation is a relatively recent innovation of the 
Tremere. Created to replace the rituals practiced by the clan in 
the days when it was a band of mortal wizards, Spirit Manipula- 


tion is the art of forcing spirits into actions and situations that 
would normally be anathema to them. Spirit Manipulation 
simulates many effects that can be created by Lupine and 
shamanic mages, but does so by forcing the spirits involved into 
a grotesque mockery of their normal behaviors. Any botch with 
Spirit Manipulation not only inflicts the normal loss of Will- 
power involved with thaumaturgical mishaps but also tums the 
full force of the spirit’s wrath against the offending vampire. 


© HERMETIC SIGHT 

The vampire can perceive the spirit world, either by 
gazing deeply into itor by seeing the presence of nearby spirits 
as a hazy overlay on the material world. This power does not 


allow the thaumaturge to see into the realms of the dead or 
into the realms of the fae. 


System: Onesuccesson the roll isneeded forthe thaumaturge 


to perceive spirits, while two allow him to view the spirit realm. 
With less than four successes, the thaumaturge is at +2 difficulty 
to all actions performed while using this power due to the 
distraction of divided perceptions. Hermetic Sight lasts for the 


duration of the scene or until the thaumaturge deactivates it. 


© © ASTRAL CANT 
The languages of the spirit world are infinitely varied 
and mainly incomprehensible to mortal (or immortal) minds. 


Astral Cant does not teach the thaumaturge the tongues of 


the spirits, but it does allow him to understand them as they 
speak to him and to reply in their own languages — in effect, 


auniversal translator for the spirit world. Imprecise use of this 


power can be disastrous, particularly when a thaumaturge is 


bargaining with a powerful spirit. The use of this power is not 

always necessary; many spirits speak human tongues but 

choose to feign ignorance when dealing with vampires. 
System: The number of successes determines the accu- 


racy of the translation. 


Effect 
Pidgin spirit language; verysimple 
words and phrases can be com- 


No. of Successes 


1 success 


prehended. 


2 successes Simple sentences are possible; 


“trade language.” 


3 successes Fluent conversation; sufficient for 


most conversations. 


Complex issues such as meta- 


physics can be discussed. 


4 successes 


Even the most obscure idiomatic 
expressions and forms of humor 


come through. 


@ © è Voice OF COMMAND 

This is perhaps the most dangerous power in the Spirit 
Manipulation arsenal, for the consequences if a thaumaturge 
fails can be most unpleasant. Voice of Command allows a 
vampire to issue orders to a spirit, compelling it to heed her 
bidding whether or not it desires to do so. 

System: The player makes the normal Willpower roll; the 
targetspiritresists with Willpower (difficulty of the thaumaturge’s 
Manipulation + Occult or Manipulation + Lore: Spirits). The 
degree of success the thaumaturge attains determines the com- 
plexity and severity of the command that she can issue. 
Effect 
The spirit is immune to the 
character's commands for the rest 
of the night. It reacts however the 
Storyteller deems appropriate. 
The spirit is unaffected, and further 
attempts to command it are made at 
+1 difficulty (cumulative). It may 
ignore, taunt or even attack the char 
acter at the Storyteller’s discretion. 
The spirit obeys a very simple 
command that is no great in- 
convenience to it. 
Thespiritheedsarelatively straight 
forward command that it is not 
innately opposed to performing. 
The spirit agrees to perform a 
moderately complex task that 
does not violate its ethics. 


5 successes 


No. of Successes 
Botch 


Failure 


1 success 


2 successes 


3 successes 


Thespirit consents toan extended 
or intricate task that does not 
place it in immediate danger. 
The spirit accepts a lengthy or 
nigh-impossible task, or one that 
may mean its destruction. 
Crafty Storytellers should note that spirits compelled by this 
power are fully aware that they are being forced into these actions, 
and may well seek revenge on their erstwhile mastersata later time. 
‘Thaumaturges who issue commands above and beyond what 
their spirit servants are compelled to perform may find themselves 
ignored or mocked. Even worse, a spirit in such a situation may 
“agree” to follow orders without following through, leaving the 
thaumaturge in a situation of potentially fatal embarassment. 


4 successes 


5 successes 


© 0 00 ENTRAp EPHEMERA 

This power allows a thaumaturge to bind a spirit into a 
physical object. This can be done to imprison the target, but is 
more often performed to create a fetish, an artifact that allows 
a user to channel a portion of the spirit’s power through it to 


affect the physical world. Fetishes created by this power are 
often recalcitrant and fail at inopportune moments, as the 
spirits within are most displeased with their situation and will 
take any opportunity to escape or thwart their captors. 
System: The number of successes rolled determines the 
power level of the fetish to be created. A fetish is activated by 
rolling the user’s Willpower (difficulty of the fetish’s power 
level + 3). A botch on this roll destroys the physical compo- 
nent of the fetish and frees the spirit that was trapped within. 
For more complete guidelines to fetish powers, refer to 
pages 273-275 of Werewolf: The Apocalypse. The Story- 
teller is always the final authority in determining the powers 
and mechanics of a fetish created through use of this power. 


©0000 DUALITY 
The thaumaturge can now fully interact with the spirit 
world. While using this power, he exists on both planes of 
existence at once. He is able to pick up objects in the physical 
world and place them in the spirit world and vice versa. Beings 
and landscape features in both realms are solid to him, and he 
can engage in any manner of interaction. He can even use 
Thaumaturgy and other Disciplines in either world. This is 
not without its dangers, however: One misstep and the 
vampire can find himself trapped in the spirit realm with no 
way to return home. Several incautious thaumaturges have 
starved into torpor while trapped on the other side of the 
barrier that separates the physical and spirit realms. 
System: The number of successes dictates how long the 
vampire can interact with the spirit world. 
No. of successes Duration 
One turn 
Three turns 
10 turns 
10 minutes 
The remainder of the scene 
Duality can only be used while the character is in the 
physical world. Note that while Duality is in effect the 
character is also susceptible to attacks from both realms. 
Additionally, the player must roll Perception + Occult (dif- 
ficulty 8) when this power is activated; a roll with less than 


1 success 

2 successes 
3 successes 
4 successes 
5 successes 


three successes indicates that all rolls made while this power 
is active are at +2 difficulty due to the distraction of the 
character's dual perceptions. The character is still considered 
to be in the physical world for purposes of basic physics and 
common sense — for instance, his feet rest on the ground in 
the physical world, not the ground in the spirit world, and he 
could thus walk across a spiritual chasm if a physical parking 
lot overlaid the same space. 

A botch on the roll to activate this power tears the 
vampire out of the physical world and traps him in the spirit 
realm. The way back the physical realm, if there is one, is left 
to the Storyteller’s discretion, and may constitute an entire 
adventure in and of itself. 


Powers Bevon UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DisciPLINEs 


107 


THAUMATURGICAL 
COouNTERMAGIC 


This is less ofa path than it isa separate Discipline, as the 
power to resist Thaumaturgy can be taught independently of 
Thaumaturgy, even to those Kindred who are incapable of 
mastering even the simplest ritual. However, the techniques 
of Thaumaturgical Countermagic are not officially taught 
outside Clan Tremere, for obvious reasons. Any non-Tremere 
who displays the ability to resist Thaumaturgy quickly be- 
comes the subject of potentially fatal scrutiny from the 
entirety of Clan Tremere. 

System: Thaumaturgical Countermagic is treated as a sepa- 
rate Discipline. It cannot be taken as a character's primary path, 
and a rating in it does not allow the character to perform rituals. 
The use of Thaumaturgical Countermagic is treated as a free 
action in combatand does not require split dice pool. To oppose 
a Thaumaturgy power or ritual, a character must have a 
Thaumaturgical Countermagic rating equal to orgreaterthan the 
rating of that power or ritual (which means that rituals of Level 
Six or greater cannot ever be countered with this power). The 
playerspendsa blood pointand rolls the number of dice indicated 
by the character's Thaumaturgical Countermagic rating (diffi- 
culty equal to the difficulty of the power in use). Each success 
cancels one of the opposing thaumaturge’s successes. 

Thaumaturgical Countermagic can only be used against 
Tremere Thaumaturgy at full effectiveness. It works with 
halved dice pools against non-Tremere blood magic and 
mortal “hedge wizardry,” and is completely ineffective against 
non-vampiric magics and powers. 

Thaumaturgical Countermagic can be learned by char- 
acters who are unable to learn Thaumaturgy (e.g. those with 
the Merit Magic Resistance). Any non-Tremere character 
with a rating in this power automatically gains the Flaw Clan 
Enmity (Tremere), receiving no freebie points for it. This 
power cannot be taken during character creation and cannot 


For BxXAMpLe 

Jaeger is a Tremere archon with Thaumaturgical 
Countermagic 5. HeisfacingNadine,an infernalist with Lure 
of Flames 5. Nadine attempts to use her Lure of Flames to hurl 
afireball at Jaeger and rolls two successes against a difficulty of 
8. Jaeger rolls 10 dice of countermagic against a difficulty of 8, 
the same difficulty against which Nadine rolled, and scores 
three successes, completely neutralizing the attack. 

Jaeger’s partner Nathaniel has Thaumaturgical 
Countermagic 4. If Nadine had attacked Nathaniel, he 
would have been completely unable to counter the fire- 
ball, as his Thaumaturgical Countermagic rating is lower 
than that of the power being used against him. Likewise, 
if Nadine used her Movementof the Mind 4 to hurlastake 
at Nathaniel, he would have been unable to oppose it 
because he cannot yetcounterspells that target things that 
he is not touching. 


be spontaneously developed. It costs the same as any other 

non-clan Discipline to learn. 

. Twodiceofcountermagic. The charactercan attempt 
to cancel only those powers and rituals that directly 
affect him and his garments. 

Four dice of countermagic. 

Six dice of countermagic. The character can at 
tempt to cancel a Thaumaturgy power that affects 
anyone or anything in physical contact with him. 
Eight dice of countermagic. 

Ten dice of countermagic. The character can now 
attempt to cancel a power or ritual that targets any 
thing within a radius equal to his Willpower in yards, 
or one that is being used or performed within that 
same radius. 


WEATHER CONTROL 


Command over the weather has long been a staple 
power of wizards both mortal and immortal, and this path is 
said by many to predate the Tremere by millennia. The 
proliferation of usage of this path outside the clan tends to 
confirm this theory; Weather Control is quite common 
outside the Tremere, and even outside the Camarilla. Lower 
levels of this path allow subtle manipulations, while higher 
stages of mastery allow a vampire to call up raging storms. 
The area affected by this power is usually rather small, no 
more than three or four miles in diameter, and the changes 
the power wreaks are not always immediate. 

System: The number of successes rolled indicates how 
long it takes the weather magic to take effect. One success 
indicates an entire day may pass before the weather changes 
to the thaumaturge’s liking, while a roll with five successes 
brings an almost instant effect. 

The difficulty of the Willpower roll necessary to invoke this 
power may change depending on the current local weather 
conditionsand the weather the character is attempting tocreate. 
The Storyteller should impose a bonus (-1 or -2 difficulty) for 
relatively minor shifts, such as clearing away a light drizzle or 
calling lightning when a severe thunderstorm is already raging. 
Conversely, a penalty (+1 or +2 difficulty) should be applied 
when the desired change is at odds with the current conditions, 
such as summoning the same light drizzle in the middle of the 
Sahara Desert or calling down lightning from a cloudless sky. 


PLavinc INDOORS 

Weather Control isnot the sort of power that lends 
itself well to indoor application. While certain of the 
path’s uses (changes of temperature, high winds and 
possibly even fog) do make a certain amount of sense in 
interior settings, others (precipitation ofany sort, light- 
ning) don’t. The difficulty for all rolls to use Weather 
Control indoors is at +2, and the Storyteller should free 
to disallow any proposed uses that don’t make sense. 


The Gune 10 THE CAMARILLA 


108 


If the character tries to strike a specific target with 
lightning, the player must roll Perception + Occult (difficulty 
6 if the target is standing in open terrain, 8 if he is under 
shelter, or 10 if he is inside but near a window) in addition to 
the base roll to use Thaumaturgy. Otherwise the bolt goes 
astray, with the relative degree of failure of the roll determin- 
ing where exactly the lightning strikes. 

Effects of the power default to the maximum area available 
unless the thaumaturge states that he's attempting to affect a 
smaller area. At Storyteller discretion, an additional Willpower 
roll (difficulty 6) may be required to keep the change in the 
weather under control. 

Individual power descriptions are not provided for this 
path, as the general principle is fairly consistent. Instead, the 
strongest weather phenomenon possible at each level is listed. 
. Fog: Vision is slightly impaired and sounds are muffled; a 
+1 difficulty is imposed on all Perception rolls that involve sightand 
hearing, and the effective ranges of all ranged attacks are halved. 
Light breeze: A +1 difficulty is imposed on all Perception 
rolls that involve smell 
Minor temperature change: It is possible to raise or lower the 
local temperature by up to 10 degrees Fahrenheit 


Rain or snow: Precipitation has the same effect as 
Fog, but Perception rolls are impaired to a much greater 
extent; the difficulty modifier for all such rolls rises to +2. In 
addition, the difficulty on all Drive rolls increases by two. 


Powers BEYOND UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DisciPLines 


109 


eee High Winds: The wind speed rises toaround 30 milesper 
hour, with gusts of up to twice that. Ranged attacks are much 
more difficult: +1 to firearm attacks, +2 to thrown weapons and 
archery. In addition, during fierce gusts, Dexterity rolls (difficulty 
6) may be required to keep characters from being knocked over 
by the winds. Needless to say, when gale-force winds are in effect 
papers go flying, objects get picked up by the winds and hurled 
with abandon, and other suitably cinematic effects are likely 

Moderate temperature change: The local temperature 
can be raised or lowered by up to 20 degrees Fahrenheit 
esee — Storm: Thishasthe effects of both Rain and High Winds. 
eseese Lightning Strike: This attack inflicts 10 dice of 
lethal damage. Body armor does not add to the target’s dice 
pool to soak this attack. 


THAUMATURGY 
RITUALS 


Lever Ont RITUALS 


Binp THE ACCUSING TONGUE 

his ancient ritual is said to have been one of the first 
developed by the Tremere and a primary reason for the 
lack of cohesive opposition to their expansion. Bind the 
Accusing Tongue lays a compulsion upon the subject that 
prevents him from speaking ill of the caster, allowing the 


thaumaturge to commit literally unspeakable acts without 
fear of reprisal. 


System: The caster must havea picture orotherimage oreffigy 
of the ritual’s target, a lock of the target’shairand black silken cord. 
‘Thecaster winds the cord around the hairand image while intoning 
the ritual’s vocal component. Once the ritual iscomplete, the target 
must score more successes on a Willpower roll (difficulty of the 
caster’s Thaumaturgy rating + 3) than the caster scored in order to 
say anything negative about the thaumaturge. The ritual lasts until 
the target succeeds at this roll or the silk cord is unwound, at which 
point the image and the lock of hair crumble to dust. 


ENGAGING THE VESSEL OF TRANSFERENCE 

This ritual enchants a container to fill itself with blood 
from any living or unliving being who holds it, replacing the 
volume of blood taken with an equal amount previously held 
inside the container. When the ritual is enacted, the vessel 
(which must be between the size of a small cup and.a@allorr 
jug) is sealed full of the caster’s blood and inscrikediwith the 
Hermetic sigil which empowers the ritualeWhenever an 
individual touches the container with his bare skin, he feels 
a slight chill against his flesh but no further discomfort. The 
container continues to exchange the blood it contains until 
it is opened. The two most common uses of this ritual are to 
covertly create a blood bond and to obtaif a sample of 
subject's blood for ritual or experimental purposes. 

System: This ritual takes three hours to enact (reduced 
by 15 minutes for each successen thei casting roll) agd 
requires one blood point (although mot necessarily the 
caster's blood), which is seafed inside the container. The 
ritual only switches blood between itself and a subject ifit 
is touched bare-handed — even thin cotton gloves keep it 
from activating. 


Individuals with at least four dots in Occult or three in 
Expert Knowledge: Mage Lore recognize the Hermetic sigil 
with two successes on an Intelligence + the appropriate 


Knowledge roll (difficulty 8). 


INCANTATION OF THE SHEPHERD 

This ritual enables the thaumaturge to mystically locate 
all members of his herd. While intoning the ritual’s vocal 
component, he spins in a slow circle with a glass object of 
some sort held to each of his eyes. At the end of the ritual, he 
has a subliminal sense of the direction and distance to each 


of his regular vessels. 

System: This ritual gives the character the location 
relative to him of every member of his herd. If he does not 
have the Herd Background, Incantation of the Shepherd 
locates the closest three mortals from whom the thaumaturge 
has fed at least three times each. This ritual has a maximum 
range of 10 miles times the character's Herd Background, or 
five miles if he has no points in that Background. 


Purrty of Fresnu 
The caster cleanses her body of all foreign material with 
this ritual. To perform it, she meditates on bare earth orstone 


while surrounded by a circle of 13 sharp stones. Over the 
course of the ritual, the caster is slowly purged of all physical 
impurities: dirt, alcohol, drugs, poison, bullets lodged in the 
flesh and tattoo ink are all equally affected, slowly rising to 
the surface of the caster’s skin and flaking away asa gritty gray 
film that settles within the circle. Any jewelry, makeup ot 
clothes that the caster is wearing are also dissolved. 

System: The player spends one blood point before 
rolling. Purity of Flesh removes all physical items from the 
caster's body, but does not remove enchantments, mind 
control or diseases of the blood. 


Lever Two RITUALS 


BLoop WALK 

A thaumaturge casts this ritual on a blood sample from 
anothényampire. Blood Walk is used to trace the subject's 
Kindred lineage and the blood bonds in which the subject 
isinvolved: 

Systems This fitalireuires three hours to cast, reduced 
by 15 minutës for each suceéss on the roll. It requires one 
blood point from the subject, Each success allows the caster 
to “sée back" Onegenieration, giving the caster both the True 
Nameof theancéstorand'an image of his face. The caster also 
Tearns the generation and clanGr bloodline from which the 
subjectis descended. With three Successes, the caster also 
leaens thesidentities of all parties with whom the subject 
Shiards.a Kood bond, either as regnant or thrall. 


BURNING Brave 

Developed during Clan Tremere’s troubled inception, 
Burning Blade allows a thaumaturge to temporarily enchant a 
melee weapon to inflict unhealable wounds on supernatural 
creatures. While this ritualisin effect, the weapon flickers with 
an unholy greenish flame. 

System: Thistittal can only be cast on melee weapons. 
The caster mustetit the palm of her weapon hand during the 
ritual —withthe weapon if it is edged, otherwise with a sharp 
stone. This inflicts a single health level of lethal damage 
whichieannot be soaked but may be healed normally. The 
player spends three blood points which are absorbed by the 
weapom Once the ritual is cast, the weapon inflicts aggra- 
vated damage on all supernatural creatures for the next few 
suctessful attacks, one per success rolled. Multiple castings of 
Butning Blade cannot be “stacked” for longer durations. 
Furthermore, the wielder of the weapon cannot choose to do 
normal damage and “save up” aggravated strikes — each 
successful attack uses one aggravated strike until there are 
none left, at which point the weapon reverts to inflicting 
damage. 


DONNING THE MASK OF SHADOWS, 

This ritual renders its subject translucent, her form appearing 
dark and smoky and the sounds of her footsteps muffled. While it 
does not create true invisibility, the Mask of Shadows makes the 
subject much less likely to be detected by sight or hearing. 


The GUDE TO THe CAMARLLA 


110 


System: This ritual may be simultaneously cast on a 
number of subjects equal to the thaumaturge’s Occult rating; 
each individual past the first adds five minutes to the base 
casting time. Individuals under the Mask of Shadows can 
only be detected if the observer succeeds in a Perception + 
Awareness roll (difficulty of the caster’s Wits + Occult) or if 
the observer possesses a power (such as Auspex) sufficient to 
penetrate Level Three Obfuscate. The Mask of Shadows lasts 
a number of hours equal to the number of successes rolled 
when it is cast or until the caster voluntarily lowers it. 


WARDING CIRCLE VERSUS GHOULS 

This ritual is enacted in a manner similar to that of Ward 
versus Ghouls (see Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 184), but 
creates a circle centered on the caster into which a ghoul 
cannot pass without being burned. The circle can be made as 
large and as permanent as the caster desires, as long as she is 
willing to pay the necessary price. Many Tremere chantriesand 
havens are protected by this and other Warding Circle rituals. 

System: The ritual requires three blood points of mortal 
blood. The caster determines the size of the warding circle when it 
is cast; the default radius is 10 feet, and every 10-foot increase raises 
the difficulty by one, toa maximum of 9 (one additional success is 
required for every 10-foot increase past the number necessary to 
raise the difficulty to9). The playerspendsone blood pointforevery 
10 feet of radius and rolls. The ritual takes the normal casting time 
if it is to be temporary (lasting for the rest of the night) orone night 
if it is to be permanent (lasting a year and a day). 

Once the warding circle is established, any ghoul who 
attempts to cross its boundary feels a tingle on his skin and a 
slight breeze on his face —a successful Intelligence + Occult 
roll (difficulty 8) identifies this as a warding circle. If the 
ghoul attempts to press on, he must roll more successes on a 
Willpower roll (difficulty of the caster’s Thaumaturgy rating 
+ 3) than the caster rolled when establishing the ward. 
Failure indicates that the ward blocks his passage and inflicts 
three dice of bashing damage on him, and his next roll to 
attempt to enter the circle is at +1 difficulty. If the ghoul 
leaves the circle and attempts to enter it again, he must repeat 
the roll. Attempts to leave the circle are not blocked. 

The Tremere have access to several other Warding 
Circle rituals: Warding Circle versus Lupines (Level Three), 
Warding Circle versus Kindred (Level Four), and Warding 
Circles versus Spirits, Ghosts, and Demons (Level Five). 
Each Warding Circle ritual must be learned separately. The 
material components required for each warding circle are the 
sameas those needed for the corresponding ward, but in larger 
amounts. The effects against the targeted beings are the same 
as for Warding Circle versus Ghouls. 


Lever THREE RITUALS 


FLesH or Fiery TOUCH 
This defensive ritual inflicts painful burns on anyone 
who deliberately touches the subject's skin. It requires the 


subject to swallow a small glowing ember, which does put off 
some thaumaturges with low pain thresholds. Some vain 
Tremere use this ritual purely for its subsidiary effect of 
darkening the subject's skin to a healthy sun-bronzed hue. 

System: Flesh of Fiery Touch takes two hours to cast 
(reduced by 10 minutes per success). It requires a small piece 
of wood, coal or other common fuel source, which ignites and 
is swallowed at the end of the ritual. The subject who swallows 
the red-hot ember receives a single aggravated health level of 
damage (difficulty 6 to soak with Fortitude). Until the next 
sunset, anyone who touches the subject’s flesh receives a burn 
that inflicts a single aggravated health level of damage (again, 
difficulty 6 to soak with Fortitude). The victim must voluntar- 
ily touch the subject; this damage is not inflicted if the victim 
is touched or accidentally comes in contact with the subject. 

This ritual darkens the subject’s skin to that which would 
be obtained by long-term exposure to the sun in a mortal. The 
tone is slightly unnatural and metallic, and is evidently 
artificial to any observer who succeeds in a Perception + 
Medicine roll (difficulty 8). 


SANGUINE ASSISTANT 

Tremere often need laboratory assistants whom they can 
trust implicitly. As Tremere often trust no one whom they know 
and no one whom they do not, this ritual allows the intrepid 
thaumaturge to conjure a temporary servant. To cast the ritual, 
the vampire slices open his arm and bleeds into a specially 
prepared earthen bowl. The ritual sucks in and animates what- 
everrandom unimportant items the wizard happens to have lying 
around his workshop — glass beakers, dissection tools, pencils, 
crumpled papers, semiprecious stones — and binds the materials 
together into a small humanoid form animated by the power of 
the ritual and the blood. Oddly enough, this ritual almost never 
takes in any tool that the thaumaturge finds himself needing 
during the assistant’s lifespan, nor does it take the physical 
components of any other ritual nor any living thing. The servant 
has no personality to speak of at first, but gradually adopts the 
mannerisms and thought processes that the thaumaturge desires 
inan ideal servant. Sanguine Assistants are temporary creations, 
but some Tremere become fond of their tiny accomplices and 
create the same one whenever the need arises. 

System: The player spends five blood points and rolls. 
The servant created by the ritual stands a foot high and 
appears as a roughly humanoid shape composed of whatever 
the ritual sucked in for its own use. It lasts for one night per 
success rolled. At the end of the last night, the assistant crawls 
into the bowl used for its creation and falls apart. The 
assistant can be re-animated through another application of 
this ritual; if the thaumaturge so desires, it re-forms from the 
same materials with the same memories and personality. 

A Sanguine Assistant has Strength and Stamina of 1 and 
Dexterity and Mental Attributes equal to those of the caster. It 
begins with no Social Attributes to speak of, but gains one dot 
per night in Charisma and Manipulation until its ratings are 
equal to those of the caster. It has all of the caster’s Abilities at 


Powers Bevono UNDERsTANDING:ApvaNceD Discrunes 


it 


one dot lower than his own. A Sanguine Assistant isa naturally 
timid creature and flees if attacked, having only four health 
levels, though it will try to defend its master's life at the cost of 
its own. It has no Disciplines of its own, but has a full under 
standing of all of its master's Thaumaturgical knowledge and 
can instruct others if so commanded. A Sanguine Assistant is 
impervious to any mind-controlling Disciplines or magic, so 


completely is it bound to its creator's will 


SHAFT OF BELATED QUIESCENCE 

This ritual turns an ordinary stake of rowan wood into a 
particularly vicious weapon. When the stake penetrates a 
vampire’s body, the tip breaks off and begins working its way 
through the victim's flesh to his heart. The trip may take several 
minutes or several nights, depending on where the stake struck 
The stake eludes attempts to dig it out, burrowing farther into 
the victim's body to escape surgery. The only Kindred who are 
immune to this internal attack are those who have had their 
hearts removed by Setites. 

System: The ritual takes five hours to enact, minus 30 
minutes per success. The stake must be carved of rowan wood 
coated with three blood points of the caster’s blood, and 
blackened in an oak-wood fire. When the ritual is complete 
the stake is enchanted to act as described above 

Anattack with a Shaft of Belated Quiescence is performed as 
with anormal stake: a Dexterity + Melee roll (difficulty 6, modified 
as per the normal combat rules, as the attack does not need to 
specifically target the heart — the stake takes care of that) with a 
lethal damage rating of Strength + 1. Ifat least one health level of 
Jamage is inflicted after the target rolls to soak, the tip of the stake 
breaks off and begins burrowing. If not, the stake may be used to 
make subsequent attacks until it strikes deep enough to activate 

Once the tip of the stake is in the victim's body, the 
Storyteller begins an extended roll of the caster's Thaumaturgy 
rating (difficulty 9), rolling once per hour of game time 
Successes on this roll are added to the successes scored in the 
initial attack. This represents the tip's progress toward the 
victim's heart. A botch indicates that the tip has struck a bone 
and all accumulated successes are lost (including those from the 


initial attack roll). When the shaft accumulates a total of 15 


successes, it reaches the victim's heart. This paralyzes Kindred 


and is instantly fatal to mortals and ghouls. 

Attempts to surgically remove the tip of the shaft can be 
made with an extended Dexterity + Medicine roll (difficulty 7), 
rolled once per hour. The surgeon must accumulate a number of 
succ s equal to those currently held by the shaft in order to 
remove the tip. Once surgery begins, however, the shaft begins 
actively evading the surgeon’s probes, and its rolls are made once 
every 30 minutes for the duration of the surgery attempt. Each 
individual surgery roll that scores less than three successes inflicts 
an additional unsoakable level of lethal damage on the patient 

Shaft of Belated Quiescence may be performed on other 
wooden impaling weapons, such as spears, arrows, practice 


swords and pool cues, provided that they are made of rowan 


wood. It may not, however, create a Bullet of Belated Quies- 
cence — wooden bullets are not large enough to absorb the 
full amount of blood required for the ritual. 


WARD versus LupINes 

This wards an object in a manner identical to that of the 
Level Two ritual Ward Versus Ghouls (see Vampire: The 
Masquerade), except that it affects werewolves. Other ver- 
sions of this ritual are rumored to have been created to affect 
different species of werecreatures. 

System: Ward versus Lupines behaves exactly as does 
Ward versus Ghouls, but it affects werewolves rather than 
ghouls. It does not affect Nuwisha, Bastet or any Changing 
Breed other than Garou. The ritual requires a handful of silver 
dust rather than a blood point. 


Lever Four RITUALS 


HEART OF STONE 

A vampire under the effect of this ritual experiences the 
transformation suggested by the ritual’s name: his heart is 
completely transmuted to solid rock, rendering him virtually 
impervious to staking. The subsidiary effects of the transforma- 
tion, however, seem to follow the Hermetic laws of sympathetic 
magic: the vampire’s emotional capacity becomes almost non- 
existent, and his ability to relate to others suffers as well. 

System: This ritual requires nine hours (reduced by one 
hour for every success). [tcan only be cast on oneself. The caster 
lies naked on a flat stone surface and places a bare candle over 
his heart. The candle burns down to nothing over the course of 
the ritual, causing one aggravated health level of damage 
(difficulty 5 to soak with Fortitude). Atthe end of the ritual, the 
caster’s heart hardens to stone. The benefits of this are that the 
caster gains a number of additional dice equal to twice his 
Thaumaturgy rating to soak any attack that aims for his heart 
and is completely impervious to the effects of a Shaft of Belated 
Quiescence (see above), and the difficulty to use all Presence 
powers on him is increased by three due to his emotional 
isolation. The drawbacks are as follows: the caster’s Conscience 
and Empathy scores drop to 1 (or to 0 if they already were at 1) 
and all dice pools for Social rolls except those involving 
Intimidation are halved (including those required to use Disci- 
plines). All Merits that the character has pertaining to positive 
social interaction (e.g. Animal Magnetism or Sanctity) are neu- 
tralized. Heart of Stone lasts as long as the caster wishes it to. 


SPLINTER SERVANT 

Anotherritual designed toenchantastake, Splinter Servant 
isa progressive developmentof Shaft of Belated Quiescence. The 
two rituals are mutually exclusive, which is fortunate for many, 
because a Splinter Servantof Belated Quiescence would bea truly 
terrifying weapon. A Splinter Servant consists of a stake carved 
froma tree which has nourished itself on the dead, bound in wax- 
sealed nightshade twine. When the binding is tom off, the 
Splinter Servant leaps to life, animating itself and attacking 
whomever the wielder commands — or the wielder, if she is too 


slow in assigning a target. The servant splits itself into a roughly 
humanoid form and begins single-mindedly trying to impale the 
target's heart. Its exertions tear it apart within a few minutes, but 
if it pierces its victim’s heart before it destroys itself, it is remark- 
ably difficult to remove, as pieces tend to remain behind if the 
main portion is indelicately yanked out. 

System: The ritual requires 12 hours to cast, minus one 
per success, and the servant must be created as described 
above. When the binding is torn off, the character who holds 
it must point the servant at its target and verbally command 
it to attack during the same turn. If this command is not 
given, the servant attacks the closest living or unliving being, 
usually the unfortunate individual who currently carries it. 

A Splinter Servant always aims for the heart. It has an 
attack dice pool of the caster’s Wits + Occult, a damage dice 
pool of the caster’s Thaumaturgy rating, and a maximum 
movement rate of 30 yards per turn. Note that these values are 
those of the thaumaturge who created the servant, not the 
individual who activates it. A servant cannot fly, but can leap 
its full movement rating every turn. Every action it takes is to 
attack or move toward its target; it cannot dodge or split its dice 
pool to perform multiple attacks. The servant makes normal 
stake attacks that aim for the heart (difficulty 9), and its success 
is judged as per the rules fora normal staking (see Vampire: The 
Masquerade, page 214). A Splinter Servant has three health 
levels, and attacks directed against it are made at +3 difficulty 
due to its small size and spastic movement patterns. 

A Splinter Servant hasan effective life of five combat turns 
per success rolled in its creation. If it has not impaled its victim 
by the last round of its life, the servant collapses into a pile of 
ordinary, inanimate splinters. Three successes ona Dexterity roll 
(difficulty 8) are required to remove a Splinter Servant from a 
victim's heart without leaving behind shards of the stake. 


Warp versus KINDRED 

This warding ritual functions exactly as do Ward versus 
Ghouls and Ward versus Lupines, but it inflicts injury upon 
Cainites. It does not harm kuei-jin (see Kindred of the East), 
although Tremere researchers are promising their elders a 
Ward versus Cathayans ritual “any night now.” 

System: Ward versus Kindred behaves exactly asdoes Ward 
versus Ghouls, but it affects vampires rather than ghouls. The 
ritual requiresa blood pointof the caster’sown blood and does not 
affect the caster. As noted above, this ward does not harm kuei- 
jin,and thereiscurrently no “Ward versus Cathayans” in existence. 


Lever Five RITUALS 


ENCHANT TALISMAN 

This ritual is the first taught to most Tremere once they 
have attained mastery of their first path. Create Talisman 
allowsthe thaumaturge toenchanta personal magical item (the 
fabled wizard’s staff) to act as an amplifier for her will and 
thaumaturgical might. A Tremere’s talisman is a great source of 
personal pride, and any insult directed against a talisman is an 
insult at the thaumaturge herself. Many talismans are laden 


Powers Bevono Unnerstanomwc:Anvancen Disairunes 


113 


with additional rituals (such as every ward known to the 
thaumaturge). The physical appearance of a talisman varies, 
but it must be a rigid object close to a yard long. Swords and 
walking sticks are the most common talismans, but some 
innovative or eccentric Tremere have enchanted violins, shot- 
guns, pool cues and classroom pointers. 

System: This ritual requires six hours per night for one 
complete cycle of the moon, beginning and ending on the new 
moon. Over this time, the thaumaturge carefully prepares her 
talisman, carving it with Hermetic runes that signify her True 
Name and the sum total of her thaumaturgical knowledge. The 
player spends one blood point per night and makes an ex- 
tended roll of Intelligence + Occult (difficulty 8), one roll per 
week. If a night’s work is missed or if the four rolls do not 
accumulate at least 20 net successes, the talisman is ruined and 
the process must be begun again. 

A completed talisman gives the thaumaturge several 
advantages. When the character is holding the talisman, the 
difficulty of all magic or magick that targets her is increased by 
one. The player receives two extra dice when rolling for uses of 
the character's primary path and one extra die when rolling for 
the character’s ritual castings. If the talisman is used as a 
weapon, it gives the player an additional die to roll to hit. Ifthe 
thaumaturge is separated from her talisman, a successful Per- 
ception + Occult roll (difficulty 7) gives her its location. 

Ifa talisman is in the possession of another individual, it 
gives that individual three additional dice to roll when using 
any form of magic or magick against the talisman’s owner. At 
the Storyteller’s discretion, rituals that target the thaumaturge 
and use her talisman as a physical component may have 
greatly increased effects. 


A thaumaturge may only have one talisman at a time. 
Ownership of a talisman may not be transferred — each 
individual must create her own. 


Escape to A True FRIEND 

One of the few rituals available to the Tremere thatallows 
a form of teleportation, Escape to a True Friend allows the 
caster to travel to the person whose friendship and trust she 
most values. The ritual has a physical component of a yard- 
wide circle charred into the bare ground or floor. The caster 
may step into the circle at any time and speak the True Name 
of her friend. She is instantly transported to that individual, 
wherever he may be at the moment. She does not appear 
directly in front of him, but materializes in a location within a 
few minutes’ walk that is out of sight of any observer. The circle 
may be reused indefinitely, as long as it is unmarred. 

System: This ritual takes six hours a night for six 
nights to cast, reduced by one night for every two suc- 
cesses. Each night requires the sacrifice of three of the 
caster's own blood points, which are poured into the 
circle. Once the circle is complete, the transport may be 
attempted at any time. The caster may take one other 
individual with her when she travels, or a maximum 
amount of “cargo” equal to her own weight. 


ATTUNING WARDS 

Some Tremere have servants or allies whom they wish 
tomake exempt from the damage and subsequentavoidance 
compulsion inflicted by the various “Ward versus” and 
“Warding Circle versus” rituals (Ward versus Ghouls, Lu- 
pines, Kindred, Spirits, Ghosts,and Demons). Thistechnique 
is taught to all Tremere who are taught any of these rituals. 
Itrequireseither the presence of each individual whois to be 
exempt from the ward or a point of their blood when the 
ward iscast. The difficulty of the roll to cast the ward is raised 
by one (toa maximum of 9). The thaumaturge may exempt 
amaximum numberof individuals equal tohis Thaumaturgy 
rating from each ward he casts. 

The caster of a warding circle can also temporarily 
enchant a specific being to pass through a warding circle 
cast by that thaumaturge. This requires five minutes, one 
point of the subject’s blood and an Intelligence + Occult 
roll (difficulty 8). If this succeeds, the subject is exempt 
from the warding circle for one night per success. 


WARD VERSUS SPIRITS, 

This warding ritual functions exactly as do Ward versus 
Ghouls, Ward versus Lupines and Ward versus Kindred, but it 
inflicts injury upon spirits. Several other versions of this ward 
exist, each geared toward a particular type of non-physical 
being. 

System: Ward versus Spirits behaves exactly as does 
Ward versus Ghouls, but it affects spirits (including those 
summoned or given physical form by Thaumaturgy Paths 
such as Elemental Mastery). The material component for 
Ward versus Spirits is a handful of pure sea salt. 

The other versions of this ward, also Level Five rituals, 
are Ward versus Ghosts and Ward versus Demons. Each of 
these three Level Five wards affects its respective target on 
both the physical and spiritual planes. Ward versus Ghosts 
requires a handful of powdered marble from a tombstone, 
while Ward versus Demons requires a vial of holy water. 


VISCERATIKA 


The exclusive possession of the Gargoyle bloodline, 
Visceratika is an extension of the Gargoyles’ natural affinity for 
stone, earth and things made thereof. Certain Visceratika 
powers also closely resemble some aspects of Protean and, to a 
lesser extent, Vicissitude. Tremere in a position to know insist 
that this is pure coincidence, but the few among the Gargoyles 
who retain scholarly aspirations maintain that the Gangrel and 
Tzimisce blood used to create the bloodline still maintains a 
certain hold over its members. 

Clan Tremere recently released a report stating that, 
contrary to popular belief, the appearance and wings of the 
Gargoyles are results of the Gargoyle Embrace or creation 
process, not side effects of Visceratika as was previously 
believed. The implication is that other Kindred can learn 


‘Tet GUIDE TO THe CAMARA 


114 


Visceratika and retain human appearance. The Gargoyles, 
however, are understandably unwilling to share one of their 
primary survival tools, and few other Kindred are willing to 


risk it in any case. 


© SHIN OF THE CHAMELEON 

This basic power has saved countless Gargoyles from 
committing breaches of the Masquerade — and has allowed 
just as many to ambush unsuspecting intruders. When Skin 
of the Chameleon is in effect, the Gargoyle’s skin takes on the 
color and texture of the surrounding environment. This 
coloration changes reflexively as long as the Gargoyle main- 
tains a walking pace or slower speed. More rapid movement 
causes the Gargoyle’s appearance to blur, negating the cam- 
ouflaging effect. If this power is used while the Gargoyle is in 
flight, his skin becomes a reasonable facsimile of the night sky 


(though it will not shift to mimic nearby skyscrapers or star 
patterns, and a black silhouette against a brightly lit skyline 
is likely to be noticed). 

System: The player spends one blood point. For the rest 
of the scene, the Gargoyle’s Stealth dice pool is increased by 
five dice. This power is subject to the limitations described 
above; any ground movement faster than a walk negates this 
power's effect, as does flight (at the Storyteller’s discretion). 


© è Scry THE HEARTHSTONE 

The backbone of the Gargoyles’ strength as guardians of 
havens and chantries, this power allows the user to maintain 
vigilance over part or all of an enclosed structure. The 
Gargoyle gains an innate sense of where all beings are located 
within the structure, even those who are hidden by Obfuscate 
or other supernatural concealment. 


GARGOYLE FLIGHT 


The Gargoyles’ ability to fly is one of their more 
noticeable traits. Although Gargoyles do gain enormous 
strength via Potence, and they do sprout wings asa result of 
being Embraced or converted, their enhanced body density 
(some Gargoyles have been recorded as weighing over 800 
pounds) makes natural flight an impossible proposition — 
they don’t have enough thrust-to-weight ratio to do more 
than glide like a brick with a couple of sheet-metal wings 
taped on. The more biology-minded among the Kindred 
have been wondering about this for some time. 

The truth of the matter is that Gargoyles shouldn’t be 
able to fly. Their ability to perform aerial maneuvers is 
unnatural (even for the Kindred) and is a direct result of 
Tremere experimentation. The initial thaumaturgical pro- 
cess that created the Gargoyles incorporated a highly 
refined variant of Movement of the Mind as a fundamental 
component of the subjects’ magical makeup, making one 
application of this one thaumaturgical path second nature 
to them. This instinctive magical ability has been passed 
along through their blood for centuries. The Tremere 
scholar who gave the Gargoyles their flight capability in 
this manner was destroyed in the Gargoyle Revolt, and it’s 
unknown whether anyone else knew whathe did. Thus, the 
secret of Gargoyle flight is most likely lost forever. 

For characters with more natural airborne forms, 
such as Gangrel in bat-form, Flight is a specialty of the 
Athletics Talent, or at Storyteller discretion can be 
listed as a Secondary Ability instead. Gargoyles, how- 
ever, use a unique Discipline called Flight that is only 
available to them. All Gargoyles start with one dot in 
Flight in addition to their initial three Discipline dots; 
further levels of Flight must be bought like any other 
clan Discipline. As the character's Flight rating in- 
creases, so does her maximum speed. 


© The character cannot fly per se, but can soar 


like a vulture or a hang-glider — as long as he’s not 
trying to carry anything. Maximum speed equals the 
prevailing winds, or 15 miles per hour in calm air. 

ee The character can make running takeoffs and 
can carry a maximum payload of 20 pounds. Maximum 
speed equals 30 miles per hour. 

eee The character can perform a straight 
vertical ascent if unencumbered, or can make longer 
takeoff runs carrying up to 50 pounds. Maximum speed 
equals 45 miles per hour. 

The character can carry up to 100 
pounds aloft, though vertical takeoff is impossible with 
more than 50 pounds of baggage. Maximum speed equals 
60 miles per hour. 

eesse — Thecharactercaniftupto 200 pounds, 
which should be sufficient for most player characters — or 
prey. Maximum speed of 75 miles per hour. 

Every dotin Flight past the fifth adds an additional 
100 pounds and 20 miles’per hour to the Gargoyle’s 
maximums. Celerity cannot be used to enhance flight 
speed. Although Flight did originate as a modification 
of Movement of the Mind, it is not considered 
Thaumaturgy; Gargoyles with high Flight ratings may 
have slightly effervescent auras, but they certainly 
can’t perform-rituals using Flight. Remember — only 
Gargoyles can learn this Discipline, and they'te not 
aware that it’s a Discipline at all. To the character, her 
wings and her ability to fly are just part and parcel of 
her existence as a Gargoyle. 

Players who want to know what their characters are 
capable of doing to devastate opponents from the skies 
are directed to page 82 of the Book of Storyteller 
Secrets for Vampire: The Dark Ages. 


Powers BEYOND UNDERSTANDING: ÅDVANCED DISCIPLINES 


115 


System: The player spends a Willpower point to acti- 
vate this power, which remains in effect as long as the 
Gargoyle is within or in contact with the target structure, or 
until the next sunset. Scry the Hearthstone may be used on 
anything up to the size of a large castle, including a cave 
complex, a theatre, a parking garage or a mansion. The 
character gains an innate sense of the location and approxi- 
mate size and physical condition of all living (or unliving) 
beings within the structure. To pinpointa specific individual’s 
location with this power, the player must succeed in a 
Perception + Alertness roll (difficulty 6). If the subject is 
attempting to hide, he may oppose this roll with aroll of Wits 
+ Stealth (difficulty 6). 

Scry the Hearthstone may be used to detect the presence 
of characters who are under the concealment of Obfuscate or 


similar powers. In this case, the Gargoyle only knows that there 


is someone present —she cannot actually see the individual in 
question. To determine the Gargoyle’s ability to detect Obfus- 
cated characters, compare the relative levels of the Gargoyle’s 
Visceratika minus one and the intruder’s Obfuscate as per the 
rules for Auspex in Vampire: The Masquerade. 


© © BOND WITH THE MOUNTAIN 

Similar to the Protean power of Earth Meld, Bond with 
the Mountain allows a Gargoyle to seek shelter within stone 
(or building materials that are stonelike, such as cement). 
The merge produced by this power is not as complete as that 
made by Earth Meld, however. A faint outline of the Gargoyle’s 
shape can be seen by the sharp-eyed observer. 

System: The player spends two blood points, and the 
merge, which may only be performed upon bare rock or a 
similar substance, takes four turns to complete. This power 
functions in a fashion similar to the Protean 3 power of Earth 
Meld. However, the Gargoyle does not sink fully into the 
substance with which he merges, and his outline can be 
detected within the stone with a successful Perception + 
Alertness (difficulty 9) roll. A Gargoyle attacked while 
Bonded with the Mountain has triple his normal soak dice 
pool against all forms of attack. However, if he sustains three 
lethal health levels of damage from a single attack, he is 
forced out of his bond and suffers disorientation similar to 
that experienced by an Earth Melded character whose slum- 
ber is interrupted. 


©0000 ARMOR OF TERRA 

This power, combined with the unnatural resilience 
granted by Fortitude, is the source of the Gargoyles’ ability to 
withstand assaults that would tear lesser Kindred to shreds. An 
individual who has reached this level of Visceratika finds her 
skin to have become immeasurably tougher than it once was, 
and gains a higher pain threshold. She also acquires a limited 
amount of immunity to fire (though she is no less terrified of it). 

System: This power is automatic and requires no roll; it is 
always in effect. A vampire with Armor of Terra has one extra 
soak die for all aggravated and lethal attacks and two for all 


bashingattacks, reduces all wound penalties by one, and halves 
the damage dice pool of any fire-based source of injury. How- 
ever, the difficulty ofall touch-based Perception rollsisincreased 
by two due to the desensitization of the character's skin. 


©0000 Fi ow WITHIN THE MOUNTAIN 


A Gargoyle who has attained this level of Visceratika is 
no longer confined to the location in which he Bonded with 
the Mountain (above). He may now travel through stone and 
concrete as if they were no denser than a thick liquid. 
Gargoyle guardians use this power to devastating effect when 
intercepting intruders, while more subtle individuals find it 
to bea highly effective method of gaining access to “secure” 
areas. This power is of more limited use in this age of girder 
construction than it was when buildings were made of solid 
stone, but it still sees nightly use. 

System: Once the character has used Bond with the 
Mountain, the player spends two more blood points to 
activate Flow Within the Mountain for the duration of the 
scene. The Gargoyle can move within stone and cement 
under the same rules used for a character under the effect of 
the Protean 6 power of Earth Control, with the exception of 
the medium through which the character can “swim.” 

The character can also use this power to walk through a 
stone wall and emerge on the other side without first using Bond 
with the Mountain. In this case, the player spends one blood 
point and rolls Strength (difficulty 8, Potence adds successes 
normally). The Gargoyle may flow through a maximum thick- 
ness in feet equal to the number of successes rolled. If the wall or 
barrieris thicker than this, the characteris trapped within it until 
he is chiseled out or uses Flow Within the Mountain to escape. 


CREATING COMBINATION DISCIPLINES 

Just as characters should be able to work up their 
own high-level Discipline powers, there are cases where 
it may be appropriate for them to create their own high- 
level combination Discipline powers. Moments like this 
are best treated like moments when a player asks to 
create his own Discipline powers, but with even more 
caution. Combination powers are very potent, and an 
incorrectly designed one can unbalance a game immedi- 
ately. It is suggested that if a player wants to come up 
with his own combination power, that power should 
never involve more than two Disciplines. Furthermore, 
the player should have to spend extensive time 
roleplaying his research or being tutored in this new art 
by a Storyteller character who happens to possess the 
knowledge the character wants — new ground is being 
broken here, and that should never be easy. Finally, the 
experience spent for the new power should be removed 
immediately, not at the end of the training/research 
period: In any event, the Storyteller should feel free to 
reject any proposed combination Discipline powers for 
any reason whatsoever. 


‘Tet GUIDE TO THe CAMARLLA 


116 


COMBINATION 
DISCIPLINES 


Some elder Kindred have advanced their mastery of the 
basic physical Disciplines — Celerity, Fortitude and Potence— 
to such a degree that they have developed powers inconceivable 
to vampires of lesser ability and strength of blood. The following 
powersare available to those characters who have developed the 
listed Disciplinesto the required degree. These powerscannotbe 
developed spontaneously — they must be taught. 


ELEMENTAL STOICISM 
Although no vampire can resist the sun’s light indefi- 
nitely, those elders who have mastered the powers of Fortitude 
ath for a few crucial 
s some degree of 


to this advanced degree can stave off de: 
moments. Elemental Stoicism also ol 
protection against fire. 

Required: Fortitude 8, Obfuscate 4 

Cost: 40 experience points, once the prerequisite levels 
of Fortitude and Obfuscate have been reached. 

System: This power is involuntary and cannot be turned 
off. Every hour that the character is exposed to fire or sunlight, 
the player must spend one blood point. All damage inflicted on 
the vampire by fire or sunlight during that hour is changed from 
aggravated to nonaggravated lethal damage and may be soaked 
as such. This blood point use does not count against the 
character’s maximum expenditure per turn. A character whose 
blood pool is emptied by this power falls into torpor immedi- 
ately and begins taking damage normally if she is still in contact 
with the damage source. This power does not protect the 
vampire’s clothing or belongings against such damage — she 
may be able to walk through a burning building, but she'll most 
likely walk out of it wearing nothing but ashes. 


Martyr's RESILIENCE 

Reputedly pioneered by the Salubri bloodline, this power 
has been demonstrated by members of several other clansas well. 
Martyr's Resilience allows the vampire to choose to absorb 
injuries inflicted upon anyone whose blood he has tasted. This 
power is not necessarily used for selfless means — several 
Ventrue in London command small criminal armies of ghouls 
who seem to possess a disturbing degree of immunity to bullets. 

Required: Auspex 4, Fortitude 7 

Cost: 35 experience points, once the prerequisite levels 
of Fortitude and Auspex have been reached 

System: The vampire must have ingested at least one blood 
point of the subject’s blood within the past year to employ this 
power, and must be within eyesight of the subject when the injury 
is inflicted. The player spends a blood point to activate this power, 
and the action must be declared before the initial victim rolls to 
soak the damage. As a result, a number of health levels of damage 
equal to the character’s Stamina are transferred from the initial 
target of the attack to the character. This damage is considered to 
have been inflicted directly on the character and is soaked nor- 


Martyr's RESILIENCE: AN EXAMPLE 

Randall, a Gangrel elder (Stamina 8), and Christo- 
pher, Randall's newly Embraced childe, are accosted by a 
group of woefully unprepared Inquisitors. One of the 
vampire-hunters shoots Christopher in the face with a 
shotgun, inflicting a total of 14 health levels of lethal 
damage. As Randall does not want to lose the compan- 
ionship of Christopher, Randall's player spends a blood 
point and transfers eight health levels of lethal damage 
from Christopher to Randall. Christopher is left with six 
health levels of lethal damage to soak, which is still 
painful but considerably more manageable. Both players 
make their respective characters’ soak rolls, pantomime 
spitting out some teeth, and prepare to teach the Inquisi- 
tors a lesson in dealing with elders. 


mally. Any damage in excess of the character's Stamina is inflicted 
onthe initial recipient of thedamage, whosoaks itnormally as well. 

The use of this power is completely voluntary — a 
character cannot be forced to use it, even through Dominate 
or other powers of that sort. 


UNASSAILABLE DARRY 

According to the Sabbat, one of the primary advantages 
that younger Kindred have in battling their elders is modern 
technology — firearms, to be precise. Many overconfident 
elders have fallen to packs of diablerists with automatic 
weapons. Some few ancients, however, have honed their 
reflexes and hand-eye coordination to an edge fine enough to 
stop a bullet, or at least to deflect one. 

Required: Auspex 3, Celerity 7 

Cost: 42 experience points, once the prerequisite levels 
of Auspex and Celerity have been reached. 

System: This power allows a character to parry projec- 
tiles. The player spends one blood point and rolls Dexterity 
+ Athletics (difficulty and number of successes required are 
shown below) to party or catch a thrown weapon, arrow or 
bullet. Only solid physical projectiles may be deflected in this 
manner — Unassailable Parry has no effect on a stream of 
liquid from a fire hose, for instance. 

Missile 


Rock or grenade 


To parry To catch 
Knife or shuriken 
Spear 
Hatchet 
Arrow 
Crossbow bolt 
Bullet 

If the player scores less than three successes on any roll 
to parry or catch a bullet, the character still takes the gun’s 
base damage. Any missile hurled with Projectile is considered 
a bullet for the purposes of deflecting or catching it with 
Unassailable Parry. 


9 
9 (two successes) 


Powers Bevono UNDERSTANDING: ADVANCED DisciPLinEs 


117 


Death is no threat of people who are not afraid to die: But 
even if these offenders feared death all day, Who should be rash 


enough to act as executioner 


-Lao Tzu, The 


There are many observances and customs that are indig- 
enous to the Camarilla, most of which are shrouded in 


tradition and antiquity. However, the exact procedurals of 
these customs has gotten a bit foggy at times. Everyone knows 
that the Embrace is a big deal, but not everyone is as sure as 
to how one might go about it. There are certainly penalties 


ANote 

This is not a traditional systems chapter, in the 
sense of “If you want to do this, spend X points and make 
Y roll at Z difficulty” for every action imaginable under 
the moon. Rather, this chapter details the way things are 
done by the Camarilla, with an emphasis on roleplaying 
rather than dice rolling. The niceties and procedures of 
the blood hunt and prestation demand attention if 
they're to be fully fleshed out parts ofa chronicle. Hence, 
the following discussion. 


‘ay of Life, Witter Bynner, trans. 


attached to breaking the Traditions, but how those penalties 
are enforced or what they might be has been something of a 
mystery. Below, then, is a discussion of some of the most 
important traditions and customs of the Camarilla, with 


attention paid to their details and niceties. 


THe EMBRACE 


The Embrace is the process of creating new vampires 
from mortals. It works only on human beings or (exceedingly 
rarely) creatures so close to human as to pass for them. The 
right to Embrace new vampires is jealously guarded by the 
elders of the Camarilla, who fear both overcrowding and the 
prospect ofasea of hungry neonates seeking elder vitae. Even 
the details of how the process is accomplished are sometimes 
hidden from the thin-blooded youth of the Camarilla, creat- 
ingan ignorance which prevents some accidents but produces 
gruesome mistakes in other cases. 


The Rete oF Inworraumy:TACTCS AND Systems 


119 


OBTAINING DERMISSION 


The Camarilla operates under the Masquerade, a concerted 
effort to hide the existence of vampires from the mortal world. A 
logical derivation of that statement is the fact that the more j 
vampires there are, the harder it is to hide them — so it's best for ` a 
the Masquerade to keep the numbers low. But vampires will be P 
vampires, and one of the basic drives the Kindred have is to 
Embrace others. As a result, the Camarilla has come up with an | Y ORS 
ornate procedural for obtaining permission to Embrace. Were 5 POON 
those guidelines not followed, the vampiric. population would Slee CxS 
increase exponentially, shattering the Masquerade in the process. EA 
While no one actually likes the way the process is currently 
arranged (the most common gripe being that the Ventrue and 
Toreador seem to be favored), agreement is more or less universal 
that it beats the alternative 

A vampire who wants to create progeny needs to go directly to 
the top, namely, the prince. The prince holds the right of creation 
and destruction in his city, meaning that he alone has the actual 
right to create childer. It is within his power, however, to bestow 
that right temporarily on one of his subjects. This is often done as 
a reward for exceptional service, such as fending off a Sabbat attack 
uncovering an infiltrator or preventing a particularly dangerous 
breach of the Masquerade. At other times the right of creation is 
held outasa bribe to potential allies, ora way of juggling the power 
of the primogen. If the Brujah elder, who sits in opposition to the 
prince, has a few too many childer, it may behoove His Majesty to 
grant the right of creation to the as-yet unaligned Nosferatu 
primogen. Doing so bolsters the Nosferatu's forces and renders him 
indebted to the prince; all in all, an entirely satisfactory result 

On rare occasions, Kindred trade prestation debts for the 
right of creation. The right to create a new vampire is never 
given away cheaply. The vampire petitioning for such a boon 
must bringa great deal to the table, either incurring tremendous 
debt to the prince oroffering to release the prince from immense 
obligations he has incurred 

Once the right of creation has been granted (often in a public 
ceremony at Elysium; more infrequently in private if a prince is 
quietly supporting an ally or increasing his own brood), it cannot 
be rescinded. The Kindred who receives this boon hasaslongasshe 
wishes to exercise it, though most vampires already have someone 
in mind for the Embrace when they go seeking the boon. Some 
timesthere isan observation period mandated by the prince, during 
which approval can begiven ordenied fora particularcandidate for 
the Embrace. More often than not, however, the vampire with the 


mandate to create is on her own as regards her choice 
Wuy Create CHILDER? 


While mortals are driven by biology to perpetuate the 


species, vampires don’t have any such excuse. On a basic 


Un ire DURING WARTIME 
In wartime situation, the restrictions on creation are 
often relaxed. With the Sabbat pounding on the door and 
casualties constantly mounting, the need for reinforce- 


ments sometimes overrides the demands of protocol. 


Ta 


CARE AND FEEDING 

The Traditionsstate thatasire isresponsible forhischilder 
until he turns them loose as responsible “adults.” Bringing up 
neonates can be a weighty task, especially for a vampire 
embroiled in simmering intrigues. Most sires teach the basics of 
vampiric existence — the clans, the Traditions, the Masquer- 
adeand the thingsthatcanorcannotkilla vampire—and then 
hopes that the neonate picks things up on her own. The 
Tremere and Nosferatu are notable exceptions, as their clan 
support structures mandate an intensive education of all new 
members for the good of all. Ventrue often plug their neonates 
into theirroles, teaching them just enough to get along so they 
don’t get any ideas about advancement. 

A vampire who doesn’t teach his childe properly runs 
a tremendous risk. All of the childe’s actions while he is 
still “in training” are laid at the sire’s doorstep; ignorance 
of the law is no excuse. Furthermore, even once a neonate 
is let go, if he demonstrates a profound ignorance of 
custom or habit, it reflects poorly on his sire. A loss of 
status is certain; if the neonate’s ignorance becomes 
dangerous, more stringent penalties may apply. 


level, it doesn’t make sense to Embrace mortals. A new 
vampire is more competition for food, a hindrance during his 
education and, eventually, a potential rival. Furthermore, 
within the guidelines for creation established by the Camarilla, 
Embracing a mortal is expensive. The cost of the right of 
creation is a valuable boon or the forgiveness of a massive 
prestation debt; the permission to add to childer does 
not come cheap. 

With all of these drawbacks, then, why do the vampires 
of the Camarilla continue to add to their ranks? There are 
several answers which combine to provide some justification 
for the act, but none is entirely satisfactory on its own. 

First and foremost, the act of creating progeny gives a 
vampire an automatic ally (should he choose to impose the 
blood bond). Even in cases where the bond isnot employed, odds 
are that the neonate will walk a long way with his sire before 
choosing his own path, giving the elder vampire support and 
someone to watch his back in the murderous intrigues of the 
Camarilla. Many childer do eventually grow to rival their sires, 
butthatisa process of decades orcenturies, and in the meanwhile 
the benefits of a reasonably loyal ally are incalculable. Some 
Kindred go so far as to create large broods of childer, bonding 
them and their childer in turn, but this practice is frowned upon 
by therestof thesect:no one wants tosee any one vampire build 
up too much of a personal power base, after all. 

Second, creating a childe may be a matter of logistics. 
Kindred who have had their claws in a particular mortal 
industry for a hundred years may find that the business has 
expanded beyond their ability to manipulate effectively. In 
such cases, an assistant and protégé is required, and there are 
times when a ghoul just won't do (for example, if the vampire’s 
control of that business is being actively challenged, or if the 


business has opened a new division involving technology 
beyond the Kindred’s comprehension). Insimilar fashion, older 
vampires sometimes realize that they're behind the times on 
matters like telecommunications, computers and so on, and 
Embrace mortals knowledgeable with such subjects to serve as 
tutors or subordinates. The problem with this practice is that 
such tech-specific Embracees tend to have a limited shelf life; 
within a few years of the Embrace their knowledge often 
becomes outdated, and they, in turn, become expendable. 

There are even Embraces out of spite, or to deny an enemy 
a promising childe. Often one vampire will Embrace another 
Kindred’s favorite mortal, wreaking havoc on long-laid plans 
and rendering the neonate useless to his former patron. While 
such maneuvers don’t amount to that much in the Jyhad, they 
still provide pleasant moments of spite for the new sire; what 
worse punishment is there for an enemy than to see his prized 
pupil and would-be childe blood bound to someone else? Such 
Embraces do have their business side, though — by their very 
nature they disrupt other vampires’ best-laid plans nicely. 

Some vampires do Embrace mortals for less pragmatic 
reasons. Toreador in particular have a habit of trying to immor- 
talize mortal beauty through vampirism, though other vampires 
grumble that they wish the Toreador paid more attention to 
their childer’s personalities and less to their looks. On rare 
occasions, love does blossom between living and unliving souls; 
one possible outcome of this sort of romance is for the mortal 
partner to be Embraced. Such romances usually end unhappily, 
but that doesn’t keep optimists from trying. Occasionally, 
outstanding mortals (again, the Toreador have made a particu- 
lar hobby of this) are “rewarded” for their accomplishments 
with eternal life. Composers, scientists, artists, writers and 
others of this ilk are thus brought into the fold, willing or no. 

And sometimes, just sometimes, a vampire succumbs to 
the overwhelming loneliness of her condition and Embraces a 
mortal whom she think mightbesympatheticcompany through 
the centuries. Such moments of creation are usually pooh- 
poohed or explained as something else by the embarrassed sire, 
but they happen more frequently than one might think. 


WHat Goes WRONG 

The basics of the Embrace are simple. The would-be sire 
drains his potential childe of mortal blood, then allows some 
of his own to pass her lips. If all goes well, the victim soon 
awakens, ravenously hungry for blood. She has become one 
of the Kindred. 

In real life (or the World of Darkness), though, nothing's 
that simple. There are complications and mistakes, errors and 
tragedies that make the process of turning a mortal intoa vampire 
painfully complicated. Some of those problems can be planned 
for,somecan’t, andall make the creation ofachildean adventure. 

The first, and most obvious complication comes when a 
mortal, for whatever reason, refuses the Embrace. While not 
common, this problem does occur, and it leaves the frustrated 
sire with any number of problems. The local prince may rule 
that the very attempt is enough to cancel the vampire’s right 


The Remm oF Imwortaumy:TAcTKCs AND Sistems 


121 


tocreation; the vampire is left with nothing to show for having 
expended his boon. More immediately, there's the question of 
a drained corpse with vampiric blood in its lips to deal with; 
police forensic procedure is certainly good enough to draw all 
sorts of interesting conclusions from that body of evidence. 
Finally, there's the question of the effect the frustrated Em- 
brace has on the sire denied his progeny. Frenzy is always a 
possibility, and under the circumstances of a failed Embrace 
that loss of control might be disastrous for the Masquerade. 

Onasimilar note, there is a small but significant percentage 
ofneonates whosuffer permanent psychological damage from the 
Embrace. The experience of dyingand then beingreborn through 
the blood is nota pleasant one, and any number of new vampires 
have been twisted by it. The observed effects vary, ranging from 
mild phobias to full-blown dementia. Oddly enough, Malkavian 
neonates seem largely immune to the mind-warping aspects of 
the Embrace itself; it is the members of the other clans that need 
to watch their childer’s transitions carefully. 

Less pressing, but with longer-term consequences, is the 
peril of doing too much damage to a potential childe before 
the Embrace. In theory, the new vampire’s sire drains his 
blood through a single bite. In reality, things can get messy. 
If the victim resists, or the vampire gets particularly energetic 
in his feeding, permanent damage can be done to the neonate’s 
cadaver before the Embrace. Unfortunately, this injury can 
become permanentand be carried across into unlife, resulting 
in a vampire who is eternally crippled and awakens every 
night with his wounds freshly reopened. Such an unlucky 
vampire is unlikely to be well-disposed toward his sire. 

Once the new vampire awakens, there is the question of 
food. New Kindred are inevitably ravenous. This is understand- 
able, as the only blood they have in their systems is that donated 
by theirsires, whoare usually loath to give up too much. Assuch, 
aneonatesurges into hernew existence in the midstofa hunger- 
driven frenzy, and will attack whatever source of blood is handy. 
A wise sire keeps something (or someone) handy for just such 
an occasion, but as always there are complications. When an 
Embrace is a spur-of-the-moment decision, there usually isn’t 
convenient food supply around, and that means the neonate is 
frenzying on the streets. On the other hand, particularly ma- 
levolent sires may indeed take care with the food they stockpile 
for their childer — friends, lovers and family members offered 
up for slaughter make an excellent means for alienating the new 
vampire from his former existence. 


BATTLEFIELD PROMOTIONS 

A significant percentage of off-the-cuff Embraces occur 
in the midst of firefights and other hazardous scenes. A 
favorite ghoul or human is mortally wounded in the fray, and 
the vampire has the choice of letting him die or Embracing 
him. Such Embraces are seen as more forgivable than the 
usual ruck and run of impromptu creations, and in such 
instances the sire often gets off with a relatively light (as 
compared to, say, being staked out for the sun) punishment. 


ACCIDENTS, 

It would seem nearly impossible to Embrace someone by 
accident. After all, the process is a lengthy and involved one; 
few Kindred are so clumsy as to cut themselves accidentally 
and then somehow manage to spill that vitae in just the right 
place. Still, Caitiff come from somewhere, and there are more 
and more every night. 

Most “accidental” Embraces are the products of pity or 
remorse. The scenario is a common one: Vampire feeds 
(often while in frenzy), kills his vessel, and, stricken by guilt 
or sorrow, attempts to make amends by bestowing immortal- 
ity on his victim. Of course, the sire in these cases usually 
comes to his senses just as his childe is shuddering her way 
back to consciousness, and more often than not abandons his 
charge before she can fully awaken. The error is thus com- 
pounded; a ravenous neonate, unaware of the Masquerade, 
now wanders the streets while her sire cannot educate or 
protect her. To do so is to admit his violation of the Tradi- 
tions, which brings with it the risk of destruction. The very 
laws of the Camarilla prevent it from protecting its wayward 
children, ironically placing the Masquerade at risk as well. 

The vast majority of accidental Embraces are created 
by young vampires — 12th- or 13th-generation Kindred — 
or more powerful vampires who have only been under the 
Blood for a short while. Such inexperienced Kindred are 
rarely educated properly in the ways of creating progeny, 
and few take the threatened penalties seriously. Asa result, 
they have an unfortunate habit of screwing up, then aban- 
doning their mistakes to the streets. Such “mistakes” usually 
find a way to remove themselves from the vampiric commu- 
nity (through the offices of the scourge, if nothing else), but 
woe betide the sire of the Caitiff whose lineage gets traced. 
The punishments for unauthorized creation are real and do 
get levied with stern regularity. 

Older and more powerful vampires occasionally create 
childer by accident as well. Unfair though it may be, such 
Kindred usually have enough favors tucked away, or are 
valuable enough allies for a prince to have that they can 
usually work some sort of deal to avoid the ultimate penalty. 


PRESENTATION 


One of the most important customs of the modern 
Camarilla is that of presentation. When a vampire enters a 
city, she is obligated to present herself to the local prince 
and request his permission to reside in his domain, even 
temporarily. While the “permission” is almost always a 
formality (refusal on the part of a prince is a major event, 
and can even bring an archon calling to investigate the 
disruption of usual routine), the procedure itself is one of 
the backbones of the sect. 

The primary purpose that presentation serves is that it 
allows a prince to see just who is in his city. Information has 
power, and this way the prince at least has the knowledge of 
whoall of his subjects putatively are. Furthermore, the formal 


The Gune 10 THE CAMARILA 


122 


presentation, with its request for permission to remain, clearly 
reinforces the power dynamic between prince and subject; 
the process is designed to reinforce the prince’s stature. 
Conversely, a vampire who refuses to present himself to the 
prince sets himself up for the attentions of the scourge or sheriff as 
an interloper. Kindred who avoid the ritual greeting clearly don’t 
want to be identified as being in the city (or are just too damn lazy 
to present themselves), and as such, probably deserve a visit from 


the city’s law enforcement in any case to keep them in line. 


PRoceDURALS 

There is every chance that a vampire who is new toa city 
doesn’t know who the prince is or where Elysium might be. 
(The fact that this ignorance might be remedied by a little 


research on the part of the character — it's always wise to check 


REFUSING DERMISSION 
While it’s not common for a prince to refuse anew 
vampire the right to stay ina city, itis permissible. Some 
reasons for refusal include: 
© Overcrowding; 
The postulant has a bad reputation elsewhere; 
© A favor to another prince or elder, who wants the 
newcomer kept on the run; 
Evidence that the new Kindred supports one of 


the prince’s rivals 


out the lay of the land before you travel —isn’t worth worrying 
about.) Vampires who do know where to go and what to do 
before arriving in a new city generally take care of their 
obligations right away, presenting themselves to the local 
prince and, if they're wise, to the elders of their clans as well 
Those vampires whodon'tknow where to go, however, have 
aslightly trickier process. They musthuntdown other Kindred in 
the city and get the information on where to go and what to do 
and do so before the local sheriff zeroes in on them. If the law 
finds an unpresented vampire, even one who's making a serious 
effort to learn where Elysium might be, then it can become open 
. The sheriff might take pity on the newcomer 
and take him to the prince himself, or he might just rake the 


season on strange! 


opportunity to beat the hell out of the “criminal” instead 

If the newcomer is lucky and good, she finds out where 
she needs to go and lays low until the prince’s next court at 
Elysium. At such a time, she makes a beeline for the court, in 
hopes of getting there without incident or interference from 
other Kindred (who may be waiting en route, looking for their 
last chance to pick off “fair game”). Should things go well, she 
is presented, granted permission to stay in the city, and leaves 
the prince’s presence a resident of that locale. If it goes poorly, 
she may not get an audience or might be refused permission 
to stay. In that c 
get out of town immediately. She can try a 


, the vampire had best duck for cover ot 


ain at the next 
Elysium, but surviving until then may be difficult 


The Reta oF [MMORTALIV:TACTICS AND Systems 


123 


The actual process of presentation is short. The postulant 
giveshername tothe seneschal, whoannouncesher tothe prince 
when the latter's agenda permits. The newcomer is then ushered 
into the prince’s presence and formally presents herself, stating 
hernameand clan and requesting permission to stay (or just visit) 
in the city. Often the prince asks about her business and lineage, 
with her answers assiduously taken down by the seneschal for 
later referencing. After that, if all goes according to plan, the 
prince recognizes the suitor and turns her loose on his city. From 
that point on, it’s up to the individual vampire to make her way. 


DESTRUCTION 


Deep down, on some atavistic and predatory level, every 
vampire secretly wants to be the only one in existence. 
However, acting on this nagging little impulse tends to cause 
all sorts of problems with the Camarilla social order. As a 
result, the destruction of other vampires (at least those 
belonging to the sect) is strictly forbidden, save in the most 
exceptional and unusual of circumstances. 


WITHIN THE SECT 

Murder of other Camarilla vampires is one of the most 
severe crimes one of the Kindred can perform. A murderer of 
fellow vampires can expect to face Final Death in an extraor- 
dinarily painful manner if she is caught, both to punish her and 
towam others against repeating her mistake. The stated reason 
for such draconian penalties is that killing a sectmate weakens 
the Camarilla’s defenses against its enemies, which makes 
perfect sense. Kill aCamarilla vampire and you save the Sabbat 
the trouble of doing the same. Then again, there are other, 
unspoken reasons for the prohibition, most of which stem from 
the elders’ fear of being overwhelmed by a tide of younger 
Kindred. By legislating so heavily against murder and by 
inculcating a loathing of the act in their childer, the elders 
work to keep themselves from becoming targets. 


Kindred who murder other Camarilla vampires can 
expect little help from anyone besides their closest friends 
and allies. Enemies of the victim may offer some token 

istance or protection, but most will be content to reap the 
benefits of the murder while allowing the actual murderer to 
take the fall. In the meantime, the prince and all his officers 
swoop down on the offender like avenging angels, making 


GREASING THE SKIDS 

Kindred who have supporters, sires or allies in a city 
find the process of presentation to be an easy one. Such 
vampires are escorted by their sites or patrons, and are 
usually recognized immediately. By doing so, the prince 
avoids angering the postulant’s supporters. At the same 
time, the presence of said supporters indicates that the 
newcomer has a place waiting for him in the city. The 
latter is important, as it assures the prince that he’s getting 
a reasonably responsible new subject, as opposed to an 
anarch or rabble-rouser who might well prove a threat. 


punishment swift, deadly and public. Doing so is a necessity, 
otherwise the supporters of the victim may decide to take 
matters into their own hands and trigger a bloodbath. Such 
a feud can tear a city apart in a matter of nights, making the 
metropolis easy prey for the Camarilla’s enemies. 


OUTSIDE THE Sect 

The rules about murder change when the putative victim 
isn’t a member of the Camarilla. Sabbat vampires are fair game 
almost all of the time; the more dead Sabbat there are, the 
happier the Camarilla authorities are likely to be. Dealing with 
the independent clans is a bit trickier. While the Camarilla 
doesn’t necessarily like the Setites, Ravnos, et alia, it does need 
to avoid alienating them to the extent that they become die- 
hard enemies. That means treading carefully around the 
independents, especially as regarding touchy subjects like mur- 
derand the like. A Camarilla vampire who decides to rid himself 
of a pesky Giovanni permanently had best be sure to hide all of 
the evidence — including the ghost of the deceased — or risk 
being turned over to those he has wronged as punishmentshould 
he be caught. On the other hand, ifhe’s not caught, those in the 
know about his deed may well offer subtle congratulations, and 
even raise their estimation of the successful assassin. 


WALKING THE BEAT 

There are those Kindred whose titles put them in posi- 
tions where they may well have to kill, and kill repeatedly. 
Scourgesand sheriffs in particular face this situation. Scourges 
are often licensed to kill (as it were), armed with a mandate 
to remove a city's surplus population. Abuse of that privilege 
(“That was your childe, Your Majesty? I'll be hanged if he 
didn’t look just like a Caitiff to me.”) can get the scourge on 
the hitlist him: 
when they overstep their bounds. 

Sheriffs face a slightly different problem, as they're more 
likely to be confronted with kill-or-be-killed situations when 
observing breaches of the Masquerade or apprehending crimi- 
nals. In those cases, if the sheriff can at least offer a solid 
explanation for why he felt it was necessary to bring the 
hammer down, he usually gets off scot-free. Many princes see 
paying attention to neonate claims of brutality by a sherit 
giving the rabble too much credence, and are more inclined to 
trust their appointees than they are to listen to the vampiric 
masses. So long as a sheriff (or scourge) picks his targets well 
and doesn’t destroy someone with a powerful patron or protec- 
tor, the odds are that he won’t even be interfered with. A wise 


If, but most scourges are at least careful about 


as 


prince has someone watching both his scourge and his sheriff 
to keep an eye out for abuses, but both positions come with 
wide latitude when it comes to eliminating other Kindred. 


BLOOD AND DIABLERIE 

The main reason that most vampires get the urge to 
murder others is blood. Kindred vitae is more potent than that 
of mortals; it tastes better, is more satisfying and under certain 
circumstances can temporarily increase the powers of the 
vampirewhodrinksit. That’s why the practiceofmurderingfor 


Trt Gune 10 THe Camana 


124 


Tue Rev 


THM OF IMMORTALITY 


125 


BLOODBATHS 

Every so often, the pressure in a Camarilla city builds 
up to the point where the only possible escape valve is an 
explosion of violence. The combination of restrictive 
princes, powerful elders and excessive numbers of childer 
seems to be the perfect recipe for this sort of outbreak, 
which consumes both mortal and vampiric society in 
chaos and flame. Chicago in particular has been prone to 
these spasms of bloodshed, during which vampires make 
open war on the streets and the casualty lists run long. 
Usually the violence lasts for a week or so, during which 
time the prince and sheriff are too busy trying to clamp 
down on the city as a whole to prosecute individual 
murders. That doesn’t mean that any acts committed 
during the rioting won't be prosecuted later, but in an odd 
way these outbreaks have a Mardi Gras-style feel of permis- 
sibility to them. A killing done among the frenzy of a 
Kindred-style riot is somehow more likely to be excused or 
let off lightly by a prince than a single premeditated act of 
homicide that disrupts a careful peace. 


blood is even more severely frowned upon than the practice of 


murder itself; Kindred who get a taste for the hard stuff run the 
tisk of becoming addicts and turning into serial cannibals. 
Worst of all is the practice of diablerie. A diablerist 
(instantly identifiable by the black threads in his aura) can 
expect nothing less than Final Death if caught. A policy of 
benign neglect sometimes applies to the notion of diablerie on 
outsiders (if nothing else, it’s tremendous motivation to get the 
youngsters hunting Sabbat vampires), but diablerie within the 
sect is forbidden. That doesn’t mean that some Kindred don’t 
try theact oreven succeed atit, but they brand themselves with 
the evidence of the crime and run the risk of prosecution 
thereafter. A prince who catches a diablerist often makes a 
tremendous spectacle of the offender’s death, which again 
serves as an object lesson for other Kindred who might have 


been getting ideas about supplementing their diets 


NIGHT COURT 


The laws at the heart of Camarilla society are the 
Traditions. Everything else is variation or elaboration. How- 
ever, some 4000 years of history and tradition carry their own 
weight, and when order iscalled in the courts of the Camarilla 
40 centuries are looking down on the sect’s adherents. 

Princes are traditionally charged with keeping the law in 
theircities, and until well into the Renaissance, many princesand 
warlords did just that. Absolute in their authority, the princes of 
the Kindred dispensed justiceand punishment like KingSolomon, 
or more often Hammurabi and Draco. Over the years, as cities 
grew larger and princes found themselves with more responsibili 
ties, many princes farmed outsome of the tasks of law enforcement 
to other officers, most often the sheriffs and keepers of Elysium 


In these modern nights, sheriffs, keepers and some primogen 


TACTICS AND SYSTEMS 


T It Gets Worse 


Implicit in punishment from one’ 
neonates call “Wait ‘till your father gets home!” meaning, 


ire is what some 


“Take your medicine from your sireand smile, because ifhe 
u'll really get it.” Those 
caught by an officer of the city and handed over to the 
prince go right to “father,” and it’s all downhill from there. 


hands your ass to the prince, 


In such cases, the sire is also hauled up on the carpet at this 


time, and punished right alongside his errant fledgling. 
Needless to say, a sire punished thus is not going to be well- 
disposed toward his childe afterward. 


Tue Gume To 


126 


(usually Ventrue) carry the burden of enforcing the laws that the 
prince decrees. In the higher echelons, the justicars are respon- 
sible for enforcing the laws of the Camarilla over the entire sect, 
assisted by any archons they choose. 

Most Kindred laws specific to a particular city deal with 
circumstances and situations specific to that city. Such modi- 
fications to the Camarilla’s basic legal code are meant primarily 
to keep the Masquerade and the peace (although sometimes 
there’s very little difference between the two). Such laws are 
usually just variations on the Traditions, as they relate to 
conditions unique to the city. For example, the First Tradition 
isconsidered essentially inviolate, but a prince may further rule 
on contact between mortals and vampires, such as decreeing 
that a Kindred may walk among mortals so long as she does 
nothing that would mark her as unnatural, or that even casual 
contact between mortals and Kindred (beyond feeding) is out 
of bounds. In a sprawling city like Houston, the Second 
Tradition may be interpreted with regard to one’s haven and 
the haven’s environs to a one-block radius, while in crowded 
San Francisco, only the haven applies. In truth, princes have 
nearly carte blanche when it comes to creating legislation. Most 
justicars are unlikely to make an issue of examining the 
minutiae of every city’s laws, so long as the Masquerade is 
enforced and things are otherwise running smoothly. Sheriffs 
and keepers are expected to be aware of changes in the local 
legal code and to pick them up without a change or disruption 
Primogen are told to inform their clans regarding each law as 
it is made, and sires are expected to teach their childer 

If the Inner Circle decides to rule on a Tradition’s inter- 
pretation, it expects that the decree will be obeyed, and it does 
not need to send around the justicars to make certain. In truth, 
most princes are too busy running their cities to worry about 
following the newest proclamation to the letter. Princes com- 
monly do their best to implement the new rulings, but in these 
days, it’s not uncommon to finda city that has chosen to ignore 


the proclamation due to extenuating circumstances 


Bustep! 

How exactly does a Kindred get caught in flagrante? 
Patrolling the streets is not included in a sheriff’ job descrip 
tion, and even with a cadre of deputies, there’s no way he and 


his posse can be everywhere. Law enforcement, therefore, 


It Gets Worse 

Implicit in punishment from one’s sire is what some 
neonates call “Wait ‘till your father gets home!” meaning, 
“Take your medicine from yoursire and smile, because ifhe 
hands your ass to the prince, you'll really get it.” Those 
caught by an officer of the city and handed over to the 
prince go right to “father,” and it’s all downhill from there. 
In such cases, the sire is also hauled up on the carpet at this 
time, and punished right alongside his errant fledgling. 
Needless to say, a sire punished thus is not going to be well- 


disposed toward his childe afterward. 


THE CAMARILLA 


often runs largely on tips from other Kindred in various 
stations. A keeper of Elysium may watch for violations of 
Elysium or the Masquerade in her purview, while the scourge 
tracks those violating Tradition and city law in the barrens, 
and the sheriff's deputies are informed to watch around them 
at all times. A few times, mortal television cameras or obser- 
vant ghouls reading the newspaper have caught wind of 
Kindred law-breakers. A neonate who happens to look up at 
the right moment and see the crime may go to his primogen or 
elder with the information (which often results in the elder's 
taking credit for the tip-off.) The majority of arrests and 
seizures are based on tips to the sheriff or prince, often complete 
with set-ups to ensure the proper authorities catch the offender 
red-handed. When the Kindred in question is considered to be 
“troublesome” by the prince for whatever reason, the authori- 
ties can be inclined to utilize normally untrustworthy sources 
or even entrapment — anything to get the offender. There is 
no habeas corpus among the Kindred; the prince's law is 
absolute and how he chooses to enforce it is his business. 
This is not to say that Kindred don’t get away with crime 
— they often do. Those who do know exactly where the 
prince's purview stops, where they are likely to be unobserved, 
and what can be done under cover of shadows. They also often 
know what the sheriff's price is, or failing that, his weaknesses. 
What happens to a Kindred caught breaking the law? 
That can vary greatly according to both the circumstances of 
the crime and when the errant one gets before the bench. 
If the delinquent is lucky, his elder or sire catches him first 
and deals with him. Publicly, the sire does as much as possible 
to sweep the incident under the rug or at least soften the blow. 
Aslap on the wrist and the proper hang-dog attitude can go a 
long way in Elysium. As the sire can be held responsible for his 
childe’s actions, the less people are thinking about a wayward 
childe’s actions, the less people are likely totum on thesire. The 
prince will want to make certain that no breach of the Masquer- 
ade has been incurred, but is unlikely to make too great an issue 
of it. Behind closed doors, however, is a completely different 
scenario, The sire makes very certain that the childe under- 
stands what he did wrong, how much the sire did toclean up the 
mess, and how much the childe will have to do to repair the 
damage. A plethora of apologies and some groveling contrition 
isonly the firststep in the offender's rehabilitation. The sire may 
also demand that the childe perform certain acts of retribution 
or “ground” her, allowing her out only to hunt and then only if 
she is in the sire’s company. More severe discipline, often 
involving physical punishments (such as breaking every bone 
in the offender’s hand every night for a week) or private 
humiliation, is also common, particularly if the sire in question 
is well-distanced from his fading Humanity. If the childe treats 
the matter likealarkandshowsnocontrition (indeed, ifsheacts 
like her only mistake was to be caught), the sire is perfectly 
within his rights to punish her even more severely. 
Trials depend entirely on the whim of the prince and 
precedent; there isnothing in the Traditions or laws that givesan 


SHYSTERS 

Shakespeare might have advocated killing all the 
lawyers, but a lot of the most infamous shysters end up 
in the Camarilla’s considerable system. Public de- 
fenders are often selected as potential childer by 
Brujah, entertainment and copyright lawyers find 
their ways into the Toreador, and corporate lawyers 
and district attorneys are chosen by Ventrue. Once 
inside, these advocates often pick up right where they 
left off, learning as much as they can about the 
Camarilla’s laws, the insand outs ofa given city’s body 
of law, and every imaginable loophole in the Tradi- 
tions. Often, those who are very serious about further 
study learn with the law-givers of old, from Greek 
solons to Enlightened thinkers and even a select few 
“modern” lawmen (rumored to include such luminar- 
ies as Daniel Webster and William Jennings Bryan). 
Some who have taken study at the Academie in 
Lichtenstein recall nights spent honing debating skills 
under the watchful eyes of former Roman consuls and 
Sanhedrin members. Graduates of the Virginian remi- 
nisce about the time that Clarence Darrow, fresh from 
the Scopes trial, was brought in for a guest lecture 
(whereupon his mind was wiped of the encounter by 
the school’s president). 

Those legal eagles who served as defenders in life 
often continue their crusades during their unlives as 
well, offering their services to those Kindred who have 
no recourse or at the behest of the Kindred's clan. As in 
life, those who work as solicitors can command exorbi- 
tant fees for their help, and a clan can be faced with the 
choice of acquiring a lawyer for their clanmate and 
thereby practically selling themselves into slavery, or 
hoping the clanmate can help herself. Self-proclaimed 
“public defenders” are rare, but finding one is the 
greatest good luck a desperate Kindred might have. 
Many times, the defenders are known only through 
word of mouth and the occasional tattered business 
card that has been carefully passed from hand to hand. 
Chances are that these advocates work the courts for 
the rush of victory rather than money. One Toreador 
lawyer described closing-statement oration to be an art 
form no less beautiful or awe-inspiring than painting a 
portrait, while a Brujah attorney claimed the thrill of 
victory to be better than any vitae he’d everdrunk. 
While these advocates rarely request money — most of 
their clients are indigent with equally indigent 
clanmates — a wise Kindred finds some way to express 
her “gratitude.” Commensurate boons (major or life), 
loans of Influences, assistance, information, heirlooms, 
blood dolls, the teaching of new Disciplines or Abili- 
ties, even service — all have been offered as payment 
at one time or another. 


The Rete oF ImmoRTALIY:TACTICS AND SySTEMS 


127 


accused any sort of rights. A prince may decide to let the accused 
languish in an oubliette, and none could gainsay his choice. 
Traditionally, the prince, with the primogen counseling, acts as 
judge. The clan of the accused may levy for an elder outside the 
city or even an archon to preside, if the clan carries sufficient 
clout, the crime is sufficiently serious (anything which mightend 
in Final Death as punishment is deemed sufficiently serious), and 


enough doubt is engendered regarding the prince’s capacity for 


judgment. The last is a tricky gamble; accusations of incompe 
tence can spiral off into completely separate quarrels, while 
prejudice is very difficult to prove. Some modem Kindred at 
tempt to call in the “pre-trial publicity” gambit, but these are 
usually laughed out of Elysium. All offenders are deemed guilty 
until proven innocent, with the burden of proof on the accused. 
The guilty one is usually expected to defend herself, unless she or 
someone in her clan can procure a Kindred willing to act as her 
advocate. If the prince is not sitting the bench, then she and her 
keeper of Elysium may be acting as prosecution. 

When vampires have the ability to mold the minds of 
others or create illusions of events, digging out the truth can be 
difficult. A person on the stand orher defender may request that 
her aura be examined during questioning, or that her memories 
be searched for evidence of a block or tampering. If it becomes 
evident that the accused is telling the truth (as she believes it 
regardless of whether or not it is actually true), circumstances 
demand that she be allowed to have the block examined. 
Unfortunately, the most skilled at such activities tend to be 


128 


Tremere and Malkavians, and even the threat of death may not 
be enough to persuade the accused to allow either clan into her 
thoughts. Those who search the minds of witnesses are ordered 
to swear that they will not interfere or tamper with anything 
else, but there have been incidents where other information was 
extracted during the investigation or the block being examined 
was merely tamped down even further and more seamlessly 

A prince may attempt to place an offending elder on trial, 
but many elders sneer at a prince's authority, refusing to appear in 
courtandsendingthesheriffback in several boxes forthe temerity 
of such a demand. In such cases, a prince may appeal to a justicar 
for assistance, whereupon the justicar determines if the charges 
merita conclave. If they do, the justicar calls fora small conclave 
for the purposes of atrial, usually holding it in the city concerned 
Such a meeting is not as widely announced and advertised as a 
regular conclave, being reserved specifically for trial purposesand 
not intended for any other business. The elder may choose to 
have an assistant help her with defense; otherwise, she’s on her 
own. When a prince breaks the law, the matter is considered one 
for the conclave, no questions asked. Princes are expected to be 
the bulwarks of the Camarilla in the cities, and one who shows 
disregard for the law needs to be made a very public example 
Those who have broken the Traditions in some widespread, 
spectacular fashion that affects a region or nation are also placed 
on trial at conclave. Trials meant for conclaves may be held in 
reserve to wait for one of the annual ones, or may be called within 


the city strictly for trial purposes with little other business. 


As per the Fourth Tradition, a childe’s sire is punished if 
the childe breaks the law. Most punishments of this sort are 
usually very public and visible, a firsthand look for the childe 
at what will happen to her and a visceral reminder of the 
change in her circumstances. The impetus is on the sire to raise 
and guide his childe appropriately so this sort of thing doesn’t 
happen. Chances are, if the sire survives his punishment, the 
childe will learn her lesson if she hasn't already. The sheriff and 
prince usually handle these breaches within the city. 

When on trial, an accused can usually expect to sit quietly 
(sometimes gagged or Dominated into silence), listen to the 
accusations thrown at her as fact, and then respond to them as 
best she may. If she has legal assistance, the lawyer may call 
witnesses or request that her client’s memories be examined for 
tampering. Some primogen have been known toneedle at certain’ 
issues on their clanmate’s behalf, long enough to plant seeds of 
doubt in the other primogen’s (and sometimes the prince’s) 
minds. A prince may, however, by right of her station, deny the 
offenderany chance tospeak and passsentence atonce. Thoseon 
trial at a conclave are of sufficiently high station to garner 
themselves some chance to speak, and they do not waste it. A 
moving oration has been known to save many a prince from a 
midnight pyre or the nextsunrise, although how she will face her 
city later is another matter. 

Trials can be nightmarish affairs on many levels. For the 
accused, it means enduring slander, the scorn of peers, having 
one’s memories rifled through, and the real threat of Final Death 
in as painful a method as possible. Is it any wonder, then, that all 
thestopsare pulled outasthingsgrowmore desperate? During this 
time, the Kindred on the stand learns exactly who her worst 
enemies and greatest friends are. Clanmates and friends may dig 
themselves into extraordinary debt through bribing and favor- 
currying with the prince or primogen body to be allowed to speak 
onthe defendant's behalf, while trying to outbid the enemies who 
wish to ensure that they do not have the chance to do so. The 
Kindred’s primogen may call upon years of prestation debt to 
ensure a more reasonable outcome of events. Officers who are 
clanmates or friends are often torn in several different directions, 
instructed not to “abuse” their authority by the prince, wanting 
to help a friend in trouble with information granted by their 
position, and often having their persistence threatened by higher 
powers. Not a few Kindred can recall crucial pieces of evidence 
suddenly going missing due to a prestation debt called in or a 
witness who “took a trip” down into the sewers at the wrong time. 


PAYING THE PRICE 


Punishments in Kindred society are very public, and meant to 
drive homeamessageabout the wheelsofjusticeand the Camarilla’s 
willingness to use any means to keep order. Most punishments 
given by princes and archons can be divided into the social, the 
physical and the creative; what the sires and clan leaders choose to 
do privately with their offenders is up to them entirely. 

Social punishments are the sort most often inflicted on sires 
whose unreleased childer have offended, and on those whose 


crimes are not serious enough to warrant physical punishment. 
Such crimes include a bad judgment call in dealing with a mortal 
or another Kindred who was likewise in the wrong, or failing to 
follow proper etiquette in dealings with other Kindred. The 
criminal can expect to be called on the carpet in Elysium and 
embarrassed before all and sundry. The harpies usually strip him 
of part orall of his reputation, and may even go to work spreading 
word of his foolishnessas punishment. Any city positions he held 
he must relinquish immediately to his second. He can expect to 
be left off guests lists for a long while and generally ignored and 
snubbed, all the while being watched like a hawk for hisnextsuch 
slip. Socially oriented clans, such as Toreador and Ventrue, fear 
such punishments dreadfully. 

Physical punishments call to mind the old methods of 
marking criminals — cutting off hands, branding, scarring, 
flogging and the like. These tend to be reserved for anarchs (if 
those offenders aren’t killed outright) and clans like the Brujah, 
althougha prince may choose to levy this sort of penalty against 
anyshechooses. To ensure the visibility ofthe punishment, the 
offender may not grow back the missing body part fora specified 
amount of time, or must return évery night to have the brand 
reapplied, or some such. Those who attempt to dodge their 
punishments or who ignore them are often subject to the blood 
hunt, as they've proven themselves to be incorrigibly recalci- 
trant, and thus not worth saving. 


The cfeative punishments are the ones that make any 
Kindred with half a brain cringe. This could be anything from 
giving the offender overthe clan he wronged (fatal in the case of 
Brujah and Tremere, terrifying in the case of Malkavians) to 

Creative punishments can 


to.clean his elder’s librarysand work through a reading list in 
response to some bad behavior in another's domain, discovered 
heactuallyliked reading many of the classicshe’d been given, and 
was last seen attempting to track down Kindred who were mortal 
contemporaries of Jonathan Swift. Usually, however, “creative 
punishment” is semantically equivalent to “creative torment;” 
few princes are as interested in rehabilitation as they are in 
emphasizing their authority and extracting vengeance. 

Those tried at conclave face far more serious punishment in 
accordance with their crimes. The accused, however, is not 
without options. She may challenge the ruling by requesting an 
ordeal, created for her by the justicar. An ordeal may be quite 
literally any exacting task imagined, mandated with aspecific time 
limit for completion. If the accused does not complete her assigned 
task to the justicar’s satisfaction, she must accept his sentence. 
Should the crime be considered too heinous to allow the offender 
an ordeal, she may challenge one of her accusers to ritual combat. 
Like the ordeals, a trial by combat can include practically any 
bizarre detail, from blindfolds to forbiddance of weapons or Disci- 
plines. Many times, though, these combats are stacked from the 
beginning, and the accused sees the option asa way todie on hisfeet 
rather than on hisknees. (Ifhe gets lucky, he mighteven get to take 
out one of the Kindred who screwed him over in the process.) 


Toe RHYTHM OF ÎMMORTALTY: TACTICS AND SYSTEMS 


129 


On the rare occasion that a defendant has bested his 
accuser, his sentence is usually reduced. The reduction itself is 
not always great, and most times clemency simply means death 
instead of exile. Even victory in a trial by combat is not a sure 
route to escape, however; there are plenty of stories of victori 
ous combatants who were killed anyway because the spectacle 


of the bloody combat whipped the crowd into frenzy 


THE CONCLAVE 


The conclave is the greatest event in vampire politics te 
which every vampire can be privy. It serves as the highest 
court of Camarilla Kindred, as the legislative body which 
chooses the Camarilla’s direction and considers the sect’s 
place in both mortal and vampire societies, and as a stage on 


which to reaffirm the principles of the Camarilla. For the 


elders, it is a salon without peer 


an opportunity to meet 
others of their station, socialize and deal with them without 
constant interruptions from the “children.” For the ancillae 
and neonates, it is a social scene to meet clanmates and 
friends, a place to swap gossip and (if one has the courage) to 
venture into the world of vampire politics on a grand scale 
Conclave is also one of the few perks that continues to keep 
many young vampires from defecting to the anarchs and 

abbat, or simply abandoning the Camarilla altogether, as it 


is atime when the young may speak directly to the elders and 


have a chance of being heard, as well as being an opportunity 
to vote on the direction that the Camarilla takes 
Normally, only Camarilla Kindred who hear the call to 
conclave are welcome to attend; however, some friendly inde- 
pendents are welcomed as well, since the conclave’s business 
can relate to the Kindred as a whole. The announcement of an 


impendingconclaveis typically made in Elysium, with thenews 


COMMON ORDEALS 

 Withstanding sunlight or flame fora pre-ordained time. 

© Feats of strength, such as withstanding a weighted press. 

e Going without feeding for a pre-ordained time; if the 
accused frenzies at any point during the ordeal, he fails. 

e Walking a gauntlet of other Kindred who are free 
to insult or attack the accused. If the accused responds in 
any way, she fails. 

Finding something (such as a scrap of the Book of 
Nod or a star sapphire) for the justicar within a pre- 
ordained time limit 

e Sitting in vigil for a day without falling asleep or 
otherwise breaking concentration: 

Ordeals are a serious business, and their creation is 
not something justicars take lightly. Any Kindred sug- 
gesting a frivolous or obviously impossible ordeal may 


find himself serving as a guinea pig instead 


COMMON SENTENCES 

Some more common punishments levied by 

princes includ 
Minor Offenses 

e Forced servitude to another Kindred or even a 
ghoul, often for a year and a day; 

e Menial labor, such as street cleaning or running 
errands for another vampire; 

e Display in the stocks at Elysium; (This punish- 
mentis particularly popular with princes between three 
and five centuries in age.) 

e Loss of title 

Moderate Offenses 

© Temporary exile from the city; 

e Stripping of debts or boons; 

e Removal of retainers (who are either assigned to 
other Kindred or killed outright); 

e Loss of domain; 

© Forcing the offender to take one or even two 
draughts of the prince's blood, bringing him close to 
being blood bound. It is rare, however, for a full bond 
to be inflicted; the primogen council generally gets 
upset at that sort of thing. 

Serious Offenses 

e Destruction of the vampire (often by staking 
him out for the sun); 

e Destruction of progeny; 

Permanent exile; 

e Forcible donation of some of the offender's 
blood to the local Tremere chantry, as a surety for 
good behavior. 


carried back to absentees via childer and coterie mates. Only a 
justicar may call for a conclave; with a few notable exceptions 
(such as the former Gangrel justicar’s septennial New Orleans 
party), they are rare and erratic events. The logistics involved 
with running one of these gatherings do not make it a thing to 
be announced on a whim; by the same token, canceling a 
conclave is only done under the greatest duress. Because so 


many of the attendees are frequently elders and other potent- 


blooded luminaries, the location of the gathering is often kept 
secret for as long as possible, even as the conclave’s organizers 
try tokeep in mind the travel times and needs of those who may 
be coming from a great distance. 

Justicars only call conclaves to deal with dire circum- 
stances — individuals or situations that threaten or regard the 
Camarilla as a whole. The logistics of travel, accommodations 
and the 
conclave frequently makes rulings regarding the Traditions, 
taking the opportunity that having such an assembly to disc 
issues presents. At the annual conclave of 94, the matter of the 
Internet was discussed with regard to the Masquerade, along 


Masquerade make this a requirement. In addition, a 


with the Second Tradition as it related to Web sites. A number 
of elders saw an advantage in including the great many attend- 
ing neonates and ancillae who were more versed in the 
technology in the discussion; certain of the younger Ventrue 
acquired tremendous prestige as a result of their performances. 

Some conclaves are called as trials of powerful Kindred, 
to contain destructive quarrels between elder Kindred or to 
depose corrupt princes, such as the Minneapolis Conclave of 
1887 when the despotic Prince Cyril Ximenes was brought to 
trial for his unrealistic demands regarding the Masquerade 
and even more outrageous means of enforcing such. 

Notall whoattend conclave are strictly regarding business, 
though — many vampires attend conclave in order to meet 
others of their clan and sect, both for business and pleasure. The 
hustle and bustle of a conclave with so many vampires in 
attendance makes it an ideal place to meet contacts for back- 
room deals, or for groups of elders to gather for meetings that do 
not look any more suspicious than their usual social soirees. 

For young vampires, the conclave is one of the few benefits 
that Camarilla membership can offer. The opportunities to 
socialize and network at a conclave can boggle the mind, and for 
a number of neonates, this becomes their first look at the much 
greater world to which they belong. Not a few sires bring their 
childer here to introduce them to more of the clan, perhaps 
grandsires and great: orto give thema firsthand lesson 
in the political structure of the Camarilla. Young vampires may 
speak in assembly and voice their opinions, and a well-spoken 
neonate with a sharp mind can impress potential mentors while 
buttressing her own sire’s reputation. The young ones may vote, 
and by this believe that they have some small amount of control 
over their destiny in a society that limits their benefits according 
totheir vampiric age. Most ancillae and elders agree that by these 
small things (and they are small indeed by comparison to the 
larger scope of vampiric society) the young ones are kept a little 
more content, are made less likely to start another Anarch 
Revolt, and may be carefully guided into becoming the next 
generations to carry on tradition (and Tradition). 


MAKING ARRANGEMENTS 


For as quickly as they can be called, conclaves can be 
logistical nightmares for even the most experienced hosts. 
Few vampires attending rarely have any idea of the scram- 
bling that went on behind the scenes to reach the point 
wherein the conclave is actually a working event. 


andsire: 


Security 

When a justicar calls for conclave, he usually publicly 
announces the location a month before the event proper. 
Princes and harpies in cities around the nation often have news 
of the event before it is officially named, but announcing things 
before the justicar does so rouses righteous ire, both for the 
breach in protocol and because of the potential for alerting 
enemies. Thisis primarily due toconcerns regarding Sabbat and 
anarchattacks—the less time the enemy has to prepare, the less 


The RHYTHM OF IMMORTALITY: TACTICS AND SYSTEMS 


131 


likely they are to mount anything organized enough to succeed. 
The news of a conclave is typically given first in Elysium and 
spread along the lines of gossip (of which there are many in any 
city). Those who might not attend Elysium can still receive the 
news from friends, clanmates and childer, and only the most 
isolated Kindred (or demented Malkavians) are unlikely to hear 
the call. In years when the Sabbat have been excessively active, 
double bluffs regarding location are not uncommon, but this 
can be tricky and dangerous for those attendees who miss the 
latest news (along with the Sabbat packs) and end up walking 
into a large-scale trap as a result. One such disaster occurred in 
1957 when a conclave was called for Rotterdam, then revealed 
to be taking place in Brussels a little too late and a little too 
secretly for a collection of visiting American elders. These 
unfortunate tourists learned too late that the Sabbat in Europe 
are just as vicious as their American counterparts, and that they 
don’t take well to being tricked. 

Some have debated (under the guise of security concerns) 
changing tradition so that only those invited may attend con- 
clave. This notion has been vetoed as often as it has come up, 
primarily because tradition demands that any who hear the call 
may attend (and changing tradition is considered to be slightly 
easier than stopping Niagara Falls), and secondly because of the 
concerns over putting out enough invitations. Someone would 
be forgotten, insults would be perceived, and things would 
inevitably and rapidly deteriorate from there. Those who support 
the younger vampiresalsofear that the conclaves would losesome 
of their liveliness without the young ones’ debating and partying. 
Ifnothing else, the partiesand clan meetingsassure the elders that 
the “children” are kept constructively busy. 

In the modern nights, security at conclaves has become 
steadily tighter in every way possible. With the Sabbat’s attacks 
becoming more frenzied, and more outside threats to worry 
about, the Camarilla is naturally concerned about the potential 
for catastrophe so inherent in having so many potent-blooded 
elders sitting in one place. Nota few like-minded Kindred have 
made jokesabout this, ranging from “Ground Zero” to“the meat 
market” to “accident waiting to happen.” Such jokes are not 
spoken too loudly when a city is in conclave. A sheriff in a city 
neighboring one hosting conclave heard a group of neonates 
making similar remarks, and decided to take no chances; the 
group was staked and put in storage until conclave had passed 
without incident. 

The head of security detail is often hand-picked by the 
justicar who calls for the conclave. The individual thus chosen 
may bean archon, an elder or the sheriff of the hosting city. She 
isresponsible for making certain that the wrong people don't get 
in, that those people who are in don’t cause trouble and that 
everything runs safely and without incident from Sabbat, 
anarchs, Lupines or anyone else. Running security can be one 
of the most important tasks of conclave, and the justicar chooses 
carefully, well-aware that the deaths of dozens of high-ranking 
elders will look bad on even her record. Those who have served 
previously as security tell stories that border on grim comedies 


of errors about trying to contain a threat without breaking the 
Masquerade or alerting those within as to the bubbling crisis. 

A chief of security may choose deputies to assist him, usually 
selecting to have a broad range of skills at his disposal. Multi- 
talented individuals are more likely to be picked than “one-hit 
wonders”; a Brujah who can fight decently and who has a good 
grasp of Kindred society while being an excellent investigator is 
considered a much better choice than one whose greatest and 
only talent is hitting things and making them fall down. A wise 
chief also chooses from several different clans to avoid too much 
conflict over “persecution.” People are more disposed to obey a 
request from those like them, and a Malkavian can make a 
clanmate understand that his ravings are attracting too much 
attention in a way that a Tremere or Gangrel never could. 
Security chiefs recruit from both their own towns and across their 
networks of contacts in various cities, dependent on the circum- 
stances of the conclave. Ifthe conclave is strictly for trial purposes 
in the city, the chief chooses only locals, but a national or 
international conclave requires a more diverse palette. Many 
times, security procures the services of a harpy to assist with 
certain matters of etiquette to ensure that things go quietly. 

Security has considerable clout due to the immense danger 
that surrounds a conclave. They have the right to detain nearly 
anyone who is causing a disturbance or who is threatening the 
proceedings. Many justicars grant security license to use deadly 
force against any enemies of the conclave, which can include 
anarchs, Sabbat, Lupines, any other supernatural threats and 
even overly rambunctious young Camarilla Kindred. Security's 
powersare occasionally stymied by the elders, but ifthe chiefhas 
alegitimate concern and voices it to the hosting justicar, he can 
expect that the grievance will be addressed and dealt with. 
Often, the prince loans security the use of certain of his powers, 
such as contacts in the police force and city administration, to 
assist during the conclave. 

During these nights, younger vampires have brought secu- 
rity up to date from the days when a couple of burly Brujah with 
swords stood guard at the door with the Tremere reading auras. 
Discreetly placed metal detectors, heat sensors, infrared cameras 
and closed-circuit cameras are stock in trade now for any security 
director worth his salt. While the elders are disturbed by such 
technological toys, they find it difficult to argue their effective- 
ness in keeping out weapons and hunters. Some have grumbled 
that these devices place the elders at the mercy of their younger 
counterparts, but a few princes have actually told the more 
paranoid ones tostay home ifthey don’tlike the electronics. Such 
measures have the harpies scrambling to figure out the new 
ramifications and matters of etiquette, such as the propriety of 
asking an elder to submit to a wand search after he’s set off one of 
the threshold detectors or where to place certain cameras. 


TRAVEL 

Vampires traveling to conclave come by literally every 
means available to them. Those still able to mingle with 
mortal society may fly in coach class, take trains, book passage 
on ocean liners (a frequent means of travel for European 


The Gunt TO Tat Camana 


132 


A COMEDY OF FRRORS 

One such tale is told by Allen Two-Timer, a 
Gangrel from Milwaukee, regarding a conclave in 
that city in 1932. The hotel chosen to host one of the 
conclave’s sessions had also been chosen by a collec- 
tive of rumrunners to discuss their business and sample 
a few wares. The barrels of rotgut and an elder’s 
private vintage became confused on the loading docks, 
and were only discovered after Allen licked some 
leaking vintage off his hand that turned out to be 
bathtub gin. Realizing the error, he dispatched two 
deputies to retrieve the missing vitae while he stalled 
the session, The deputies, both Brujah, recall going 
through several different ideas, including disguising 
themselves as waiters, bum-rushing the door and 
setting offa fire alarm. Finally, the deputies decided to 
tip off their police contacts to arrest the rumrunners, 
and walked themselves into the fray and out with the 
necessary casks. While the elder was very perturbed 
about the delay and gave Allen a proper tongue- 
lashing, none except Allen and the deputies were the 
wiser about the near-miss to the Masquerade. Further- 
more, three of the rumrunners who proved particularly 
resistant to arrest later ended up working for Allen, 
and one eventually became his childe. 


han 


Wa 


elders who have never quite adjusted to planes), drive or even 
hitchhike on occasion. Packs of Brujah and Gangrel arriving 
on motorcycles can make the highways look like biker con- 
ventions, while well-preserved vintage autos and limousines 
ferry Ventrue and Toreador. Malkavians may carjack their 
transportation, Dominate unfortunate mortals into hauling 
them, orsimply take Greyhound buses (which offer the added 
bonus of allowing them to frighten their fellow passengers). 

Those with special travel needs (such as largely inhuman 
Kindred, monstrous Gangrel, some Nosferatu) need to plan 
a little more thoroughly. Many Gangrel choose to travel in 
mist or animal form to spare themselves the worry about 
commingling with mortals. Nosferatu and other Kindred 
who cannot travel by conventional means arrange to have 
themselves shipped to their destination and having retainers 
meet their boxes at the docks to prevent any accidental 
openings. A keeper of Elysium in a conclave city can find 
herself signing for a great many large packages during the 
nights just prior to the first meetings. 

Retainers can be invaluable during travel, always a 
difficult proposition at best and often more so during a 
conclave. A ghoul can see to securing ground transportation 
after a flight, or lead her morning-groggy companion out of 
the sun while ushering her to a limo or taxi. Other ghouls 
pack their masters into boxes to be shipped and meet them on 
the loading docks. Competent ghouled limo drivers are worth 
their weight in gold, while a single mortal or ghouled com- 


WZ Ke 


TE 


————— 


The Revi OF ImoRTaLiy:TACTCS AND SYSTEMS 


133 


panion who can take daylight shifts of driving can be invalu- 
able for those who need to use less luxurious means of travel. 


ACCOMODATIONS 

Theamountoftimeacity has to prepare forconclave varies 
according to the kind of event planned. A small conclave called 
for a trial or regarding a single city is usually announced only a 
month or so in advance. Since the event is concerned with a 
smaller audience, it needs less preparation. On the other hand, 
a regional, national or international conclave that is intended 
as one of the annual events is usually announced to the public 
approximately three to four months before the conclave’s 
opening date. A select few in the city, however, have most likely 
learned the date at least six months before. Some even claim 
that annual conclave sites are chosen a full three years in 
advance to allow the prince time to have new hotels built and 
ensure that there are no conflicting mortal events on the 
calendar. The hosts of annual conclaves usually inform the 
prince themselves via formal letter, which requires an equally 
formal reply. Smaller events receive notice via anarchon’s visit, 
which heralds the justicar’s arrival. It is an honor for a prince’s 
city to be chosen for conclave, as it reflects the prince’s workin’ 
keeping the peace and defending against enemies like the 
Sabbat. Cities under siege or at war are too busy with other: 
concerns to host a conclave, besides being terribly unsafe, 

It might seem ideal to host conclave in a city already 
bustling with other mortal events. After all, the feeding supply’ 
is ample, there are enough strangers in town that suspicions 
cannot be roused by a few more, and another event in an busy 
town won't attract the attention of hunters or other enemies. 
However, ina town cramped for livingspace, such quartersean 
rapidly become too closes A city’s resources become strained to 
the limit, and the prince of the hosting city is the one who feels 
the pinch later. Should a mortal visitor or two go missing, the. 
hosting city’s tourism and commerce suffers. If one is looking 
for protective camouflage, a careful balance must be struck 
between too many mortals and not enough. 

A prince who's just been informed that his city is about play 
host to the world promptly goes into a flurry of activity. Hotels are 
evaluated for such things as defensibility, staff and room quality 
with regard to lightproofing (as well as pliability of staff). On 
occasion, those with influence in the chamber of commerce and 
tourism industries are requested to have new hotels built. The 
problem of feeding so many vampires is scrutinized, particularly 
with consideration of the number of Kindred entering the city and 
straining resources. Current safety and security are put under the 
microscope, with troublemakers either put on ice or bribed to stay 
out of the way. Much in the same way that a city’s chamber of 
commerce puts togethera sheet for mortal conventioneers, so does 
the prince's staff (the keeper of Elysium and sheriff) inform the 
prince of the city’s resources so that he may inform the justicar. 


It is rare, but some cities do refuse the honor of hosting 
conclave. The concern most often cited issheer numbers. Ifthe 
city cannot safely support so many visiting vampires’ feeding 
habits without risking the Masquerade, the justicars — who are 


the bastions of the Traditions — often accept the explanation. 
Lupine and Sabbat incursions or otherwise compromised secu- 
rity is another troubling matter. If a justicar believes that the 
prince is refusing on the grounds that there is some potentially 
dangerous (and illegal) business afoot, however, he may choose 
to investigate the refusal personally. If the excuses of Lupines 
and feeding problemsshow themselves to be without substance, 
the justicar may then rephrase his request as acommand. After 
all, nothing is out of order for hosting a conclave — why should 
the prince continue to balk? The prince now has the unpleasant 
choice of either refusing the command (and thus putting 
himself and his city hard under suspicion) or allowing the 
conclave to take place, swallowing whatever happens and 
finding new living arrangements afterward. 


ROBERT s RuLesor ORDER 


Conclave follows a very specific order, based on ancient 
judicial and monarchical court systems, with Greek democ- 
racy, modern developments and vampiric tradition grafted 
onto the existing frame. The result is a somewhat staid and 
slow, but effective, administration in action. Those who were 
members of legislative bodies in life often claim that they feel 
quite at home in the midst of conclave. As a general rule, 
vampires are reminded that conclave is to be treated like 
Elysium, with all the privileges and responsibilities therein. 

Seating is traditionally based on age, with the gathered 
harpies assigned to monitor the proceedings, Clans, especially 
the Nosferatu and Gangrel, find strength in numbers and 
arrange themselvesasa clan, grabbing a block of seats and filling 
as members arrive, The youngest vampires are seated in the 
“cheap seats,” which usually have a terrible view ofproceedings 
and make it difficult for the neonates to be seeñ and beard 
{which ts how many elders claita they like it). Coteries do their 
best tostay together, but one that has mixed agés may find itself 
being broken up due to the age-relatéd Seating. The only time 
a younger vampire may be seated with anyolder one is if she is 
being escorted by an elder or is herself particularly noteworthy 
ancillae, and then she had better be on her best behavior. 
Neonates and ancillae fill in the “second tier” seating, and a 
younger vampire is expected to give way toan older one ifa seat 
isincontention. Fightingoverachair isnot viewed with humor, 
and the disagreeing parties are likely to be barred from the 
session for such bad behavior. Guests — such as ancillae and 
neonates making presentations — are usually seated near the 
elders, but not too closely, lest someone take offense. Elders and 
archons typically sit in front with the best view of the proceed- 
ings. The hosting justicar and any others of his standing usually 
face the assembly, seated and perhaps behind a long table. 
Ghouls are almost never permitted in during assembly, and 
never during a trial except for reasons of security or testimony. 

For a young vampire, entering conclave session without an 
experienced guide can be anerve-wrackingexperience. Sittingin 
the section reserved for the elders can be potentially fatal if a 
touchy elder takes great offense at the mistake, while the harpies 


The Gune To THe CAMARA 


134 


RUNNING CONCLAVES 


Having read about conclaves, you find the idea 
intriguing. Wouldn't it be neat to introduce your young 
players to a world far vaster than they realized? And now 
that you've thought about that, you think about the 
logistics and shudder. How are you going to Storytell this 
unwieldy thing? How are you going to keep perhaps 300 
or more vampires straight? What if everyone decides to 
ignore the major event and thinks it’s just a party? 

First of all — relax! Running a conclave can be a 
challenge, but it need not be the one that breaks you. 
The keys to running a successful in-game conclave are 
organization, opportunity and atmosphere. Grab your 
notebook or sit down at the computer and start putting 
thoughts together. 

Who's calling this conclave, and more importantly 
why? The matters at hand will have a considerable 
impact on the theme and mood of your story. Who's 
coming to this event? What clans will be represented? 
Sketch out who your biggest movers and shakers will be 
from the top down; they won’tall be elders and justicars. 


Will there be a few starry-eyed neonates gawking at all 
the powerful vampires? Will there be a would-be anarch 


trying to rally the youth around his banner by pointing 
out that they're not invited to the councils? Will there 
be a few ancillae who are quite powerful (such as regents 
or lieutenants), but who are still treated snippily as 
“children”? Will there be spies and infiltrators from the 
independent clans, anarchs and Sabbat? You don’t have 
to detail everyone, but at least have some ideas what the 
characters can expect of those of their clans who attend. 

Consider how deeply your players are getting into 
the scene. Are they planning on sitting in on the 
sessions? Are they working security detail? Are they 
simply there for the party? Find out what your players’ 
characters plans are before you go too far into crafting. 
What sorts of things will they gravitate toward and what 
will they ignore? It makes little sense to put all the best 
clues and fun things into events and scenes the charac- 
ters are unlikely to attend. Just because they miss the 
major event doesn’t mean that they won't be in the thick 
of things, though; the news will find ways to filter into 
party conversations, security briefings or simply talking 
with clanmates. Also, don’t plan on getting through this 
in one night, unless the conclave was called for a very 
specific sitting (such asa single trial). If your players are 
going in 50 directions, and you're doing this witha single 
friend or by yourself, you will go batty and end up 
glossing over too much. Plan out a fairly specific time 
table (suchas three sessions) and when it’s over, it’s over; 


there’s enough going on at a major conclave that could 
easily fuel several months’ worth of sessions. 

Be assured, you will need to wear a lot of hats if you're 
Storytelling this by your lonesome. There will be vampires 
trying to talk on the floor, vampires coming through the 
metal detectors, vampires hosting some killerroom parties 
— plus ghouls, plus Sabbar infilerators and any other 
things you feel like throwing in. Here is one time you will 
probably not want to struggle through this on your own. 
Draft a Narrator or a couple of outside players to help with 
roleplaying work. This option leaves you free to run the 
major points of the story while those characters who chose 
to do something else have an option besides sitting on 
their thumbs. You may even want to consider recruiting 
your players to do double-duty (if someone’s character is 
sitting in session — and temporarily out of play — have 
him play the rakehell Toreador that another character is 
encountering ata party). If you're considering having your 
players do double-duty, take into consideration what 
information you're giving the secondary characters; if your 
players can be weaselly about where they acquired their 
information, be careful about which parts are given out. 
Give your helpers a thorough write-up on their new 
personas, including goals and motives, and a little time to 
read it over and ask any quick questions before throwing 
them into play. 

So why go through all this work for a conclave? 
What's it worth to the players? Quite a lot, ifit’s presented 
properly. Chances are very good that your characters have 
never been out of their city governments or very far afield, 
and the opportunity to meet others of their clan who are 
not the same old faces may give them a new perspective on 
the scope and breadth of vampire society. It’s a great place 
to plant seeds for new stories with new acquaintances and 
enemies made or old ones renewed. Maybe the characters 
learn of matters that will soon be arriving in a plot, such 
as a hunted criminal or the mysterious Eastern vampires. 
Seeing a Kindred on trial firsthand may bank the fire of a 
would-be anarch’s runaway enthusiasm (which has been 
disrupting the game) or inflame a staid conservative out of 
hiscomplacent belief that the people upstairs know what's 
best for everyone. If you want to get your vampires a little 
more experienced in the ways of the world, a conclave 
gives them the opportunity to meet almost anyone. A 
character who has a run-in with a Setite at conclave will 
remember his kind when they come calling in his city, 
while another seeking information must learn to play 
diplomat when she goes to visit an elder who may be able 
to help — for a price. 


The Remm OF IMMORTALITY: TACTICS AND SYSTEMS 


135 


watch and make catty comments without offering much help. 
Most often, a lone vampire who wishes to ensure she makes no 
howling gaffes watches others seat themselves first and follows 
their example, taking note of any sidelong looks or facial expres- 
sions to gauge her progress. Certainly, any blunders made come 
back to haunt the young one later in the form of harpy barbs, or 
perhaps in unwelcome attention from elders in and out of clan. 

Mistakes in seating and sundry other etiquette sound like 
trivial offenses, and not a few ancillae and neonates find the 
matter utterly ridiculous in relation to the business of conclave 
itself. Others point out that the conclave and Elysium are events 
in Kindred society that have true pedigrees, and that these 
procedures carry the weight of tradition with them. As Elysium 
has so mutated over the years until it is only somewhat recog- 
nizable as a descendant of its original form, there is a sense that 
at least the conclave must be preserved as closely as possible to 
its old form. Not a few elders impress on their childer and 
grandchilder that a conclave is truly like living history. When 
one considers that a vampire might meet his ancestral line up 
to the clan’s founders, debate in session or clan meetings with 
brethren Embraced before his mortal great-grandparents were 
born, or encounter luminaries from history, the notion gains 
credibility. 

The hosting justicar opens proceedings and addresses the 
assembly, informing them of the business at hand and what 
must be accomplished at conclave. Any vampires who wish to 
speak may doso, provided that at least two other members of the 
assembly support them. This is perhaps the strongest reason for 
clans and coteries to sit together, as it provides any would-be 
speaker with supporters at hand; on the other hand, it can easily 
become a monumental embarrassment if no one chooses to 
recognize the speaker (and harpies do note those elders and 
ancillae who have been so snubbed by their peers; neonates so 
embarrassed are usually let off lightly with just the experience 
itself as their punishment). That even young vampires may 
address the conclave (if they have the courage and support todo 
so) is something that many Camarilla advocates have fought 
fang and talon to keep; the perks for the young ones are few 
enough, and those elders who think to take such away from the 
“children” may risk those children turning their backs on the 
Camarilla and siding with the anarchs or Sabbat. 

Speakers are expected to talk in a reasonable tone and not 
interrupt one another. An elder may occasionally override a 
young one, though, and few argue the matter. Arguments may 
become passionate, but violence is not tolerated. When fisticuffs 
(or worse) break out, the head of security himself usually arrives 
toescort the combatants outside or to the brig and waiting stakes. 
Ifsomeone takes passionate offense toa speaker's remarksand the 
argument is not a productive rebuttal, the two are requested to 
table any arguments for later orremove themselves from proceed- 
ings. Occasionally duels have been fought between Kindred 
whose disagreements started in conclave session. 

Disruptions are not looked on kindly. When the doors to 
the chambers are closed and business gets underway, the secu- 


rity chiefusually finds a good seat that allowshim tomonitor the 
entirety of the proceedings. At the first signs of a scuffle, 
argument or other potential interruption, the chief immedi- 
ately inserts himself into the matter to ensure that things are 
either cooled down without incident or the combatants are 
shown the way to the door. Hecklers are another matter. A 
heckler who is annoying everyone in general is bounced with- 
out mercy, while a heckler who is playing Devil’s Advocate is 
usually requested (with icy politeness) to make his opinions on 
the floor. Such people either shut up immediately or accept the 
challenge and are promptly set up to fall on their faces. Those 
with merit to their arguments who impress the right people and 
survive their abrupt call to debate get off lightly for disrupting 
things and a guarantee that they will be watched in the future 
by anumber of factions; a particularly quick-witted heckler can 
even gain status through his grandstanding. 

Voting on issues is a simple matter — each member of the 
assembly gets one vote. Voting may be accomplished either by 
raising one’s hand at the right time or marking one’s vote on a 
sheet of paper and placing it in a ballot box. This is another of the 
perks frequently proffered to the young, one which wise leadersdo 
not try to take away. For all the powerlessness that may plague 
them otherwise, the youth receive (or believe they receive) some 
measure of control in shaping their futures, which is one of the 
surest ways to entice anyone. Most of the elders, however, are 
well-aware that for every neonate or ancilla who votes as she 
chooses, there are a dozen who are voting to further an agenda, 
curry favor or save their skins; in fact, most of the elders present 
are probably watching certain pawns to ensure they follow 
previously laid plans and vote as they have been instructed. 

A conclave called for purposes of trial or a single matter is 
usually accomplished relatively swiftly and dispersed without too 
much fanfare. What the attendees do out of chambers is largely 
up to their own devices. Those conclaves called as annual events 
or to discuss multiple matters take time to work through a docket 
of business, then may open the floor for any matters that Kindred 
may wish to address. Not a few Kindred take this time to bring up 
problems in their cities and regions that have stymied them, such 
as abusive elders, growing interference from Setites or Giovanni, 
or mortals who are proving too powerful and visible for just one 
city to deal with. Speaking may then be limited by the hosting 
justicars based on the matter. A call to force a destructive or 
powerful prince's abdication may result in a request that those 
who dwell in the prince’s city first discuss the matter in chambers, 
while a prince who is requesting assistance in dealing with 


Quiet, PLease 
The right to speak is not the right to speak intermi- 
nably. The host retains the right to informalong-winded 
speaker that she must either conclude or be seated. 
And, with debate time in such short supply (especially 
during summer conclaves), filibustering is frowned on 
as a waste of precious minutes. 


The Gude 10 THE CAMARILA 


136 


particularly troublesome enemies may receivea bevy of interested 


responses from old and young alike. 


CONCLAVESAS TRIALS 

A conclave called for the purposes of a trial is focused 
sharply on the business at hand, and the justicar presiding 
allows nothing to interrupt that business. Such is far less about 
granting the accused a speedy trial and more about getting 
things done and over with, as such trials can gobble up a great 
deal of a justicar’s valuable time. Because of the problems with 
security and the time involved, a justicar who finds out his time 
has been wasted by a frivolous charge can be extremely harsh 
in his dealings with the accusers; most times they are punished 
severely, occasionally with Final Death if the justicar is angry 
enough. 

There is nothing in the Traditions body of law that 
grants a Kindred the right to a trial. Likewise, when trials are 
permitted, there is nothing particularly modern about the 
forms. The defendant is automatically assumed to be guilty, 
and the burden of proof rests with her and any legal defense 
she is permitted. Only after the charges have all been pre- 
sented may she begin the arduous task of proving her 
innocence. In truth, many conclave trials end up being show 
trials for the Camarilla’s mighty fist of justice. Those on trial 
at conclaves are most often abusive, despotic princes and 
elders, or Camarilla traitors whose guilt has been conclu- 
sively proven in the field. A trial where there isactually doubt 
in the minds of attendees regarding guilt of the accused is a 
rare and exciting event. 

Duringa trial, any who have something to contribute to 
the matter at hand, who have support from at least one other 
person, and who have sufficient courage may speak up either 
for or against the defendant. Of course, supporting an un- 
popular defendant is a risky business, and those who do are 
usually well-aware of the need to seek out other living 
arrangements in the event that the defendant is found guilty. 
Ithas been known to happen that someone with particularly 
damning evidence in a case may step up to speak, but certain 
powers-that-be (such as a prince, powerful elders or a con- 
certed clan's efforts) threaten any who would support her. 
The justicars frown on witness intimidation, and if they 
believe that a witness is being threatened, they will stand for 
her support to speak and may even offer her protection. Such 
protection, however, is usually only good for as long as the 
justicars and their agents are in a city, and tends to be 
conveniently forgotten once the justicars have left. 

Trials involving ritual combat or ordeals are frequently 
very ritualistic, very flashy in a somber mannerand very much 
focused on finding a suitable fate for the accused. Those 
accused who have chosen to challenge a court’s ruling are 
either desperate or too angry to care, and they will drag as 
much as they can out of the spectacle. Sometimes, the best 
they can hope for is a spectacular death that leaves many 
questions in the minds of its viewers. 


THe LEXTALIONIS 


Kindred existence is marked with blood, and so is the 
punishmentfor breaking the lawsof that existence. Most Kindred 
scholars can date the Lextalonis to the time of Caine, as it follows 
the Old Testament precept of “an eye for an eye, a tooth for a 
tooth.” Itmay well be that this is the only certain pronouncement 
of Caine’s that continues to survive into the modem age without 
becoming corrupted by time. Among the youth and less tradi- 
tion-minded of the Kindred, the practice is called the blood hunt. 

The Lextalonis is tied directly into the Sixth Tradition, 
and probably has been since its inception. The Sixth Tradi- 
tion orders that only the eldest shall call the blood hunt, with 
“eldest” being taken to refer to the prince. While there may 
be other elders in the city who might attempt to call a hunt, 
they have neither the right nor the authority to do so. The 
calling of the hunt remains a prince's purview, and a prince 
is perfectly within her rights to punish one who would usurp 
her Tradition-given right. Any Kindred foolish enough to 
follow an overly presumptuous elder’s call are often subjected 
to the same punishment they would have inflicted on an- 
other, although rare exceptions have been made for neonates 
and childer who have never been taught otherwise. 

The blood hunt may be called for numerous crimes, 
including: 

e Kin-slaying; 

e Diablerie; 

e Wide-scale breach of the Masquerade or continuous 
offenses regarding such; 

e Invasion of domain that has resulted in kin-slaying or 
breaches of the Masquerade; 

Any behavior deemed a sufficient threat to the safety 
of the Masquerade and the Kindred of the city. 

The huntis formally declared in Elysium, with primogen and 
those presentexpected tocarry newsof thedeclaration back totheir 
clanmates, or at least to pass it along the so-called barking chain. 
All who hear the call must participate at least nominally in the 
hunt, even if they find the activity distasteful or wrong. Fortunately 
for those who might object to a hunt, in these fallen times 
“participating” can mean simply staying out of the pursuers’ way 
andnotinterfering with their business. Some Kindred find the hunt 
exhilarating in the same wayasthey mightonce have enjoyedafox- 
hunt, reveling in the thrill of the chase and bringing the quarry to 
ground. There are few greater excitements than predators hunting 
predators, according to these eager hunters, and every city seems to 
have one or two Kindred who place themselves at the forefront of 
the hunting pack. Such excessive enthusiasm is looked on with 
some trepidation by a few elders. After all, over-excitement during 
the chaos of a blood hunt seems to some to be an open invitation 
toa figurative tiger pit. You never know who might “accidentally” 
be killed along with, or instead of, the actual quarry. 

Aiding and abetting the quarry of a blood hunt is dangerous, 
and often a sure means of becoming the next to be hunted. As a 


‘Toe RHYTHM OF ÎMMORTALTY:TACTCS AND SYSTEMS 


137 


result, calling a hunt is an excellent way of separating the quarry 
from heralliesand supporters; they can but watch or risk becoming 
hunted themselves. This can be a dangerous card for a prince to 
play, however. Too blatant a use of the hunt as a tool for excising 
political rivals or isolating dangerous opponents tends to get the 
local citizenry thinking about replacing the one calling the hunts. 

For the most serious of crimes (such as aiding the Sabbat or 
deliberately and repeatedly violating the Masquerade), the 
prince has the option of declaring that every Kindred in the city 
must take active part in the hunt or risk being declared 
accomplices of the quarry. Particularly paranoid princes make 
mandatory active participation a condition of all of their hunts, 
but again, abuse of this perogative is taken as proof of unsatis- 
factory leadership by many Kindred. 

The blood hunt is not called lightly, although the last 
decade has seen a significant upturn in its use. Any prince 
calling the hunt does so with full knowledge that the Camarilla 
may examine her judgment of the situation in conclave. Such 
a threat has been enough to keep a prince from calling a hunt 
if her motives are even the slightest bit questionable. If the 
conclave determines that the prince has called a hunt without 
cause, she usually suffers a profound loss of status among her 
peers, and may well be saddled with an archon “observer” to 
keep heron the straight and narrow. Iftoo many huntsare being 
called in a city, a justicar may choose to call for a conclave and 
have the offending prince deposed, assuming the angry resi 
dents don’t remove her themselves first 

Ithashappened that new evidence comes to light during the 
conclave, evidence which clears the hunted one of wrongdoing 
Too often, though, the acquittal comes after the fact, and 
tradition demands that once the hunt has been called, it cannot 
be stopped. In such circumstances, the prince or conclave may 
suggest that certain measures be taken in reparation; whilenoone 
may make an outright attempt to call the hunt off, the pursuit of 
the quarry may become rather less vigorous as a result of a 
conclave's findings. The hunted may also find himself receiving 
surreptitious aid from clanmates and friends; a guard may “casu 
ally” look the other way at just the right moment, oraconvenient 
window may be left serendipitously open to facilitate escape 

On occasion, the blood hunt is used as a means of enforcing 
exile, of literally hounding someone out of the city. Such an 
option is extended by some princes who must exile a Kindred in 
response to an outraged populace or when the accused's crime 
does not warrant a death penalty but still demands punishment 
The hunted may then flee and seek a new haven in another city, 
but she does so knowing that she may never return home. No 
matter who rulesafterthis prince, the blood huntremains in effect 
until her Final Death. The names of those exiled are often kept 
by sheriffs and keepers of Elysium, and are marked in the annals 


of city histories by those who style themselves lore-keepers 


Tue MISBEGOTTEN Hunt 
Ithas happened thata prince has called blood hunt that 
either outrages the populace so thoroughly that they refuse to 


attend, regardless of any threat levied, or that the elders unite 


The Gue To Tae CaMARILLA 


138 


against the prince and inform the populace that any who 
stand with him are the next targets. In either case, the 
situation means blood in the streets. If the populace as a 
whole refuses to support the prince on a blood hunt, his reign 
is ended then and there. Chances are very good that the 
justicars have had their eyes on him already, and even if he is 
found not guilty at conclave, the Kindred of the city have 
already demonstrated they have no respect for him. They will 
not follow him if he returns; his reign as an effective leader is 
over. The prince may try to maintain his hold through force, 
but such efforts are doomed to failure. In such situations it is 
more than likely that he instead falls prey to a hunt declared 
by his successor — who may already be styling himself prince. 

If the elders alone stand in the way of a hunt, things 
become considerably more tricky. In the best of all situations, 
aconclave may be ordered tosort out the chaos, with the hunt 
on hold until the matter is resolved. However, rarely does 
common sense thus prevail because rarely is the blood hunt 
itself the real issue in these instances. Perhaps a particularly 
powerful elder has chosen to square off with the prince, and 
she is using the contested blood hunt as a touch-point. Then 
again, it could be that the primogen council is forcing the 
populace to stand down in an effort to further their agenda 
against the prince. Such political machinations muddy the 
waters of the Camarilla’s justice system considerably, and 
often the actual merits of the case are lost in the confusion. 
At such times, the accused generally takes advantage of the 
chaos to absent herself from the city and watch the sorting- 
out process from a safe distance. 


MISCARRIAGES OF JUSTICE 

The Camarilla’s justice isa rough and simple thing, but that 
doesn’t prevent it from being subverted left, right and center. 
The process of the blood hunt, from inception to execution, 
provides innumerable opportunities for misconduct, and cun- 
ning Kindred have taken advantage of all of them. 

The first place things can go wrong, of course, is the 
actual declaration of the hunt. It is sufficiently easy to frame 
a vampire for a breach of the Masquerade or some other 
heinous crime, particularly when powers like Dominate come 
into play. More than one prince has been tricked into issuing 
a blood hunt on a perfectly innocent Kindred on the basis of 
spurious or forged evidence. Real masters of the art of inciting 
blood hunts can turn a prince's edict on his allies and childer, 
tricking him into removing his own supporters one by one. A 
prince tricked repeatedly in this fashion rapidly beomes an 
ex-prince, or more often, a pile of ashes. 

Twocan play at that game, however, and for every prince 
tricked into calling a hunt on an innocent, there’s another 
who set out to call a spurious hunt deliberately. Such hunts 
are called to eliminate rivals, demonstrate princely power or 
just exercise a prince’s sadistic tendencies. They also tend to 
keep the population jumpy, for while such behavior tends to 
destabilize a prince’s reign, no one wants to be martyred while 
waiting for the prince to be deposed. 


Dirty Poor 

Justas the blood hunt process is sometimes hijacked for 
unscrupulous means, so too can a conclave’s review be 
subverted. Even if a prince has called blood hunts for 
perfectly good reasons, persistent complaints to archons 
from the prince’s enemies can lead to a justicar’s review. As 
many justicars operate under the “where there’s smoke, 
there’s fire” principle, enough complaints— especially from 
Kindred of high standing — will inevitably lead to some sort 
of inquiry. Once the review is called, then it becomes open 
season on the prince, and things get interesting indeed. 

On the other hand, no justicar is likely to appreciate 
being used thus, and attempting to manipulate a justicar 
into deposing a prince is a very dangerous game. 


Both hunters and hunted can take advantage of the hunt 
in unscrupulous ways as well. One of the hardest parts of any 
blood hunt is the preservation of the Masquerade during the 
chase. Quarries, particularly those being hunted for breaches of 
that Tradition, often rip the Masquerade wide open during their 
flight. Such behavior distances them from their pursuers, who 
are mandated (even in the grip of the hunt) to preserve the 
Masquerade first and foremost. Other targets of a hunt deliber- 
ately lead the chase across their enemies’ domains, merrily 
causing their pursuers to trample everything underfoot. Particu- 
larly vengeful targets of a blood hunt attempt to turn the tables 
on the hunters, ambushing and destroying as many pursuers as 
possible. A vampire who is successful at taking out two or three 
of those theoretically hunting him can cause an entire hunt to 
bog down in paranoia and chaos. A hunt that’s collectively 
jumping at shadows isn’t likely to provide effective pursuit. 


On the other hand, participants in a blood hunt can play 
dirty pool as well. Accidents happen, and hunts wherein 
more than just the quarry goes down beneath the hunters’ 
fangsare common. Many ofthe most eager hunters love to use 
the hunt as an opportunity to settle scores, take out rivals or 
even indulge in unauthorized diablerie. The pursuit of a 
hunted vampire also provides plenty of chances to plant 
evidence, frame rivals or “accidentally” sneak peeks at rivals’ 
domains under the guise of searching for the guilty party. 


DIABLERIE ON THE HUNT 

On occasions of the blood hunt, diablerization of the 
quarry is most often treated with a sort of benign neglect. As 
the target of the hunt is a heinous traitor (else he would not 
be the subject of a hunt now, would he?), he deserves the 
utmost penalty, and having one’s essence subsumed by one’s 
killer fits that description pretty neatly. On the other hand, 
if the hunt is really just a disguised exile, diablerizing the 
quarry can draw down the prince’s ire, and it is a given that 
aprince frustrated in this manner will seek to extract revenge. 

The tradition of the blood hunt does state that the 
successful hunter does get to take the blood of the quarry, 
though nowhere is it stated that diablerie is either mandated 
or permissible. If the target of the hunt has particularly potent 


The Rete oF ImmortaLny:Tacnes AND Systems 


139 


vitae, the prince may declare diablerie off-limits in order to 
prevent strengthing a hunter unduly; in other cases, the 
prince may insinuate in the very declaration of the hunt that 
the quarry may be thus destroyed. Such a declaration is music 
to the ears of bloodthirsty neonates, who commonly flock to 
such hunts asa means of advancing in generation and power. 

Intheend, diablerie on the hunt is handled on a case-by- 
case basis, with permission often assumed to be implicit in the 
hunt. In many cases, a prince may fail to block the 
diablerization of the target, then use evidence of the “offense” 
as leverage on the successful hunter. 


TECHNIQUES 

The term “blood hunt” conjures up images of a horde of 
vampires storming the streets of the city, pitchforks, torches and 
Uzis in hand as they look for their victim. In truth, the actuality 
of the event is far from the stereotype. While a great many 
Kindred may get involved in a single hunt, usually it is only the 
neonates who flock together, and theydosoforprotectionagainst 
the more potent vampires they are hunting. Hunts are more often 
conducted by individuals and coteries, combing the city for 
evidence of the target’s presence and using ghouls, mortals and 
even animal servants to flush the prey out into the open. 

Once the hunt is declared, there is often a rush for the 
accused's usual haunts or haven, in hopes of catching him before 
hehearsabout (and prepares for) the hunt. Ifthat tactic fails, the 
wise blood hunter takes the measure of the victim's ghouls, allies 
and coterie. Often useful leads can be garnered from a successful 
interrogation of this sort, while a thorough search of the target's 
haven orhavenscan also be helpful. Other experienced hunters 
prefer to head straight for major transit points (highways, train 
stations, airports) in order to catch the accused on his way out 
of town. With the advent of the automobile and the helicopter, 
such tactics are less useful than they used to be, but the number 
of hunted Kindred who still manage to stumble straight into 
such traps is astonishing. 


ALTERNATE TECHNIQUES, 

All things being equal, itshould be nearly impossible to 
track down an intelligent, determined vampire who wants 
to get out of town. There are too many roads to take, too 
many places to hide and too many ways to avoid detection. 
Things are rarely equal among the Kindred, however, and 
there are any number of strategems and powers that can be 
brought to bear to track down a fugitive. 

The most effective tools the Kindred have at their 
disposal are their Disciplines, of which Auspex and 
Thaumaturgy are the most effective on the blood hunt. 
The latter offers the possibility of scrying, at the very least, 
and assorted rituals designed to bring prey to heel. The 
former is more useful when one is directly on the trail of 
the prey. Heightened Senses and Psychometry in particu- 
lar are useful for keeping the pursuit hot, though Astral 
Projection can work as well as thaumaturgical scrying. 


If the target isn’t caught within the first few hours of the 
hunt, then the chase becomes a giant game of many cats and 
one mouse. The fact that the mouse in question is as deadly as 
any of the cats adds a certain spice to the affair, and a vampire 
ona blood hunt who is disabled or knocked into torpor by his 
target is apt to lose a great deal of status while he recovers. 
However, an extended hunt often boils down to the fact that 
no hunter wants to share the spoils of victory (i.e., the chance 
todiablerize or otherwise make use of the quarry) with anyone 
else. Greed tends to keep hunting expeditions small. 


THe Rep List 


The Red List has been called, with some accuracy, “The 
Kindred’s Most Wanted.” It is the list of the most grievous, 
powerful and troublesome offenders against the Camarilla and 
its Traditions, those vampires whom the Camarilla most wants 
to see reduced to ash and brightening sunsets over half a 
hemisphere. Vampires on the list, called Anathema, have 
been formally accused of crimes ranging from traffic with 
demons to diablerie, breaches of the Masquerade to mass 
murder. They are, in short, monsters, and the Red List is a 
method by which these creatures may be brought to heel. 

In order to be placed on the Red List, a vampire must 
commit crimes of a legendary niature. Merely belonging to the 
Sabbat and leading an attack is nothing; leaving a thousand- 
mile trail of dismembered ghouls and destroyed vampires is 


STORYELLERS: HUNTING ANATHEMA 

A group of neonates going to hunt an Anathema is 
roughly equivalent toa bunch of kindergarteners toddling 
off into the woods to hunt a grizzly. If they’re very, very 
lucky, they won’t find anything. Otherwise, they may 
suffer the extreme bad luck to locate exactly what they 
were looking for. The consequences of such are not 
pleasant, but they are usually brief. 

Anathema make it onto the Red List fora reason. They 
are powerful, vicious and murderous. The average genera- 
tion of an Anathema is sixth, and all have mastered a truly 
awe-inspiring spectrum of Disciplines. Then throw in their 
homicidal manias, their perversions and their general nas- 
tiness, and the full horror of the scenario becomes apparent. 

In other words, a bunch of 12th-generation neonates 
stand a snowball’s chance in Hell against one. While it is 
certainly possible to include younger characters in a 
“hunting the Anathema” plotline, even to the point of 
allowing a character to admister the coup de grace, be 
sensible in how you handle things. Players’ characters are 
much more likely to get involved in the events peripheral 
to the hunt for an Anathema (say, drawing an alastor’s 
suspicion of aiding a Red List vampire) than they are to be 
part of the hunting expedition itself. In the end, remem- 
ber: The Anathema are dangerous, to both your characters 
and your storyline, and should be treated as such. 


The GUIDE 10 THe CAMARLLA 


140 


more on the scale of the villainy required. Membership on the 
List is not limited to Sabbat vampires, either; infamous Kin- 
dred of all clans and sects have made their way onto the charts. 


ALASTORS, 

If the archons and justicars are the law enforcement agen- 
cies of the Camarilla, the alastors are the secret police. Moving 
unseen and unnoticed through the Camarilla, they serve a 
variety of purposes at the Inner Circle’s command. Mostly, 
however, the alastors hunt the Anathema relentlessly. While 
the anonymous existence of the alastors can be a difficult one, it 
does have its rewards, specifically a more-or-less universal immu- 
nity to prosecution from local princes. This immunity is 
occasionally honored in the breach instead of the observance, 
and there have been any number of trials of princes who 
uncovered and executed alastors for crimes committed while on 
the job. The balance is gradually shifting toward giving these 
roving investigators more leeway, however, as the importance of 
tracking down the sect’s foes increases in urgency. 

Alastors are usually archons of exceptional talent, who 
are secretly recruited by the Inner Circle for promotion into 
the secret service. As most archons are blood bound to their 
justicars, the mechanisms of such elevation would be grounds 
for all sorts of speculation — if anyone besides the Inner 
Circle and a few others actually knew the alastors existed. 


Even among the elite alastors, there are degrees of 


eliteness, The best of the best (those who have taken down 
an Anathema from one of the top five positions on the Red 
List) are known as the Red Alastors, and they apparently 
exercise greater authority and powers than their fellows. 


THe TROpHY 

Every alastor whodestroysan Anathema (and any vampire 
who nails a member of the Red List gets recruited to be an 
alastor, willy-nilly) receives the Trophy (sometimes called the 
Mark of the Beast by the cynical), a tattoo of ink and blood on 
the right palm. Alastors with the Trophy always wear gloves to 
hide this fact, as unlike normal tattoos, the Trophy never leaves 
a vampire’s flesh. The mark made by the Trophy is recognizable 
to high-ranking archons and other sufficiently trained Kindred 
(even through gloves); apparently this flaw was built into the 
Trophy so that someone could watch the Camarilla’s watch- 
men. If an alastor is easily identifiable to an archon, an alastor 
who defects can easily be found and destroyed. 


EQUAL Opportunity 

You don’t have to be a vampire to get on the Red List, 
but ithelps. On very rare occasions, members of other species 
have clawed their way onto the list. Ghouls and Lupines are 
the most common suspects, but over the years a handful of 
particularly dangerous mortals and other, less common crea- 
tureshave made appearances. However, it must benoted that 
the Red List is at its core, by vampires, for vampires and most 
especially, composed of vampires. Adding too many other 
boojums is an invitation to chaos for all concerned. 


There are benefits to the Trophy, however, not the least 
of which being the automatic aid it compels from princes and 
other Kindred in a position to know what the mark means. 
There are also other rewards, including: 

e Immunity to blood hunts 

© The severance of any existing blood bonds 

© Permission to create progeny 

e A Life boon 

e Financial or territorial rewards 

e Sanctioned diablerie under certain circumstances 

e Instruction in Disciplines 

© Amnesty for past transgressions 

e Sanctioned slaying of enemies within and without the 
Camarilla (within limits) 

e Clan friendship 

© Safe passage, hospitality, feeding rights and haven 

e Retainers and permission to create ghouls 

Not all of these rewards are necessarily given to every 
alastor, nor are all of the rewards announced. However, 
receiving the Trophy can be a very lucrative proposition. 

Note that the hunting of the Red List is not a duty 
restricted to the alastors. It is theoretically every Camarilla 
vampire’s duty to hunt these monsters, as they are all consid- 
ered to be under permanent and universal blood hunt. It is 
simply that the alastors are provided with the resources and 
support to make a full-time go of it. 


THe Kir 

A hunter who brings down a member of the Red List gets 
the Trophy, and isalso granted all of her prey’s possessions. As 
the Red List vampires are usually quite old and very powerful, 
the deceased's effects can turn out to be quite valuable. What 
asuccessful hunter is not allowed to do, however, is diablerize 
the Anathema. The Inner Circle takes great care to spread 
tumors about taints and diseases in these creatures’ blood, 
warning younger vampires away from drinking or even touch- 
ing it. (It is even rumored that the bizarre stories about 
“Souleaters” came out of a misguided attempt of this sort 
when it looked like a Tzimisce Anathema might be brought 
to ground.) In truth, the rumors are probably just that, and 
the Inner Circle is just taking steps to keep potent vitae out 
of the hands of relative youngsters. 


GETTING ON THE LIST 

It’s not easy to get on the Red List. There are all sorts of 
monsters among the Kindred, and to achieve the sort of sick 
fame that demands the title “Anathema” takes time, effort 
and a truly warped set of actions. It is only the worst of the 
worst that make it onto the list, the vampires whose whis- 
pered names freeze even elders’ blood. 

In order to putaname on the List, the justicars of two clans 
must agree to prosecute this action, one bringing the name of 
the potential Anathema forward and the other witnessing the 
fact. The vampire’s crimes are then read to the assembled 


The Rete oF IwortaLmy:TACTCS AND Systems 


141 


oN SSS 


—— 


= 


| SA 


AZ 


justicars and other witnesses, and unless anyone can mount a 
sufficient objection (an unlikely event), the document of 
Anathema is signed and a new name is added to the list. Once 


a vampire is put on the Red List, the only way off is death. 


THE CAMARILLA 
ATWAR 


According to official Camarilla doctrine, the Sabbat 
does not exist. After all, the Camarilla claims hegemony over 
all vampires, including those who don’t want any part of the 
sect. Technically, then, the vampires of the self-proclaimed 
Sabbat are really just members of the Camarilla in massive 
denial of their true affiliation 


Needless to say, expounding on this question of logistics 


ns blazing 
a t 
Either is 


while a Sabbat pack is pouring into your haver 


is about as effective a defensive tactic as puttin, z over 


your head and shouting, “Nanny nanny boo bc 
good way to get turned into a small pile of ash posthaste 
Regardless of the technicalities, the Sabbat is out there 
asare the Lupines, Cathayans, the Risen Dead and any number 
ofotherenemies,all hell-benton the destruction of the Camarilla 
As a result, the Camarilla has been forced to create tactics and 
strategies for every contingency froma full-scale Sabbat invasior 
of a city to the extraction of a prisoner already buried up to her 


eyeballs for Creation Rites. Declared or not, the Camarilla is in 


ae 


and if its methods 


a war —a constant war for its very survival 


of defending itself aren't up to snuff, then the sect is doomed 
Mak 


battlefield is effective 


no mistake, the Camarilla’s approach on the 
The sect has lasted halfa millennium, 
after all, even in the face of constant assaults. The recent 
reverses the Camarilla has suffered notwithstanding, the 
sect’s generals and tacticians know what they're doing, and 
are very, very good at what they do 


They have to be. The price of failure is extermination. 


STRATEGIES 


OFFENSE 
Ona grand scale, the Camarilla’s strategy is much the same 


as the Roman Empire's was — the idea is to make the world 


Camarilla, toassimilate rather than conquer. Ergo, the Camarilla 


doesn’t mount offensives, and doesn’t seek to take Sabbat cities 


by storm. That's not the Camarilla way — for one thing, open 


‘ombat in the streets is akin to taking the Masquerade out back 


it is a truism that while the average 


and shooting it. For a 
Camarilla vampire is older, stronger and more powerful than the 
average Sabbat vampire, on any given battlefield there are going 
to bea lot more Sabbat vampires than there are Camarilla ones. 
Numbers will tell, and in stand-up fights, too often Camarilla 
vampires get swamped by the sheer weight of the opposition. 
So, instead, on those rare occasions when it’s on the 


offensive, the Camarilla resorts to subtler techniques. Often. 


THE GUDE 10 THE CAMARILLA 


142 


Camarilla offensives work through mortal and ghoul pawns. A 
favorite tactic is to locate a neighborhood in a Sabbat city that 
is home to a particularly annoying pack, buy up the real estate 
and pour money into a high-profile “urban renewal” project 
there. A few ghouls get tucked into the construction crew to 
clear out any “obstacles” to the project, and voila, the Camarilla 
takes the pack’s haven and stomping grounds out from under 
them and buries them — along with a member of the pack or 
three — under tons of nice, shiny new concrete and steel. The 
idea behind this, and other, similar tactics is to crowd the 
Sabbat back, neighborhood by neighborhood, taking out hand- 
fuls of combat effectives each time. The process is efficient, 
quiet and deadly, and when done properly serves to eliminate 
the Sabbat advantage in numbers. By the time the constriction 
finishes, the Sabbat leadership is boxed in without reinforce- 
ments and can be picked off from a position of strength. 

In a nutshell, the Camarilla’s ultimate offensive strategy is 
nothing more than a process of slow subsumption, rather than fast 
assault. Pitched battles tend to make the mortals paranoid (or 
dead), often spark riots and other catastrophesamong the kine that 
make it difficult to keep a city functioning, and lead to massive 
conflagrations that can make vampiric existence extremely un- 
pleasant. It’s far better from every perspective tostrangle the Sabbat 
out of a city and have a city left behind afterward. 


Derense 

Unfortunately, there are few occasions these days when the 
Camarilla can afford to go on the offensive. While Europe's 
perpetual stalemate plods on toward the millennium, fierce 
battles are raging in North America, and the Camarilla is losing 
them. On the East Coast, the Sabbat is taking city after city, going 
on the offensive after years of tentative aggression. On the West 
Coast, the so-called Anarch Free States (ultimately friendly to 
the Camarilla, forall their bluster) are beingoverrun by Cathayan 
invaders, and to the south squats the Sabbat stronghold of 
Mexico City. North lie the endless forests and acres of tundra that 
theremainingLupinescall home. In North America, the Camarilla 
is in a box, one that’s getting smaller all the time. 

With the situation as dire as it is, the Camarilla is determined 
toholdon toevery last inch of ground that itcan. Thesect’sstrategy 
isprimarily adefensive one these days, and one that isinsomesenses 
hamstrung by the necessity of maintaining the Masquerade and 
otherwise upholding the Traditions, even in the midst of war. A 
defense of acity that blows the lid off the vampiric presence is worse 
than losing the city to the Sabbat; no single city is worth the price 
of irrevocably breaking the Camarilla’s oldest and most sacred 
Tradition. Such a move would, in the end, cost the Camarilla the 
city in any case, and the rest of the world not long after. 

So the cordon must be drawn and the perimeter established 
early. If the Sabbat never sets foot in a city, there’s no chance that 
the Masquerade will be broken by those defending the city from the 
Sabbat. Rather than focusingon driving the Sabbat outof occupied 
territories, the Camarilla prefers todo its utmost to keep its enemies 
from infesting any more of its territory. An ounce of prevention is 
worth several pounds of cure, especially under these circumstances. 


Moreover, the Camarilla’s strategy is predicated on big 
pictures, not little ones. Individuals, apart from rare excep- 
tions, are ultimately expendable; cities and real estate are 
more important. Vampires are, in the end, replaceable. A 
Camarilla vampire who is captured should not expect rescue; 
the Camarilla’s strategists learned the hard way that it’s not 
worth losing three vampires and a half-dozen highly trained 
ghouls just to get a single prisoner out. These days the Sabbat 
doesn’teven botherkidnapping Kindred for bait, except when 
the head of the local Camarilla forces is extremely inexperi- 
enced or gullible. The place and the sect are what matter in 
Camarilla strategies, not the individual. In the end, the 
Sabbat must be kept out of the cities and the sect must be 
maintained; all else must in the end be sacrificed to that goal. 


CHAIN OF COMMAND. 
The Camarilla isnot now, nor has it ever been, a military 
organization. There is no standing army of vampires waiting 


forthe call to battle. Vampire generals don’t call their soldiers 
ontosome darkling plain, there to stand in military formation 
until ordered to march forward at their highest rate of 
Celerity. If nothing else, pitched battles with phalanxes and 


BENDING THE RULES 

Every good commander needs reinforcements, In the 
end, numbers do tell. This military truism holds as well for 
vampires as it does for mortals, Unfortunately, the Tradi- 
tions forbid the most effective method of creating 
reinforcements, while the Sabbat is under no such restric- 
tions. That means that every Camarilla field commander 
goes into the fight knowing she’s ata disadvantage — and 
her enemies know it, too. 

That's why, during wartime, the restrictions on the 
Embrace tend to get loosened justa little bit. Princeshave been 
known to offer limited carte blanche to their sheriffs and other 
key allies to Embrace as many mortals as they need (so long as 
no one gets greedy) and to worry about the paperwork after- 
ward. More often, the prince takes it on himself to create — 
and bond — the reinforcements. The Camarilla corridor in 
New York isaprime example of this tactic in operation; should 
the Sabbat abandon the city tomorrow, it would be awash in 
the Ventrue progeny of the prince, all of whom have been 
Embraced in the last three years as battlefield “promotions.” 

Anadditional benefitto this tactic isthe fact thatoddsare, 
the “reinforcements” created thus have a fairly powerful Kin- 
dred of relatively low generation siring them. Asa result, even 
ifthe fresh meatisn’tparticularly well-trained in theart ofbeing 
a vampire, there’s still a lot of innate power that the neonate 
can draw upon in the interests of self preservation. Ina tussle 
betweenaneighth-generation Ventrueneonatecreated by the 
local prince and a 13th-generation Brujah antitribu created as 
partofa mass Embrace by astreet-level pack member, you'd do 
well to put your money on the Ventrue every time. 


The RHYTHM oF ÎMMORTALTY: TACTICS AND SYSTEMS 


143 


whatnot present definite violations of the Masquerade, and 
as such are worthless to the Camarilla cause. A Ventrue 
primogen may have known Tacitus or Trajan in the flesh, but 
isn’t in a position to use any of their suggestions. 

In most cities, military or pseudo-military affairs are left 
toa city’s sheriff and his childer, though as a matter of course 
the sheriff is granted leave to “deputize” other Kindred to help 
him in whatever matters are pressing. In reality, situations 
like that often emulate the recruitment practices of the 
golden age of the British Imperial Navy, with neonates 
plucked from the street and pressed into service. 

It is only in extraordinary circumstances that the prince 
himself takes a hand in issuing orders; that’s what he has a 
sheriff for, after all. When the prince himself has to start 
fighting in the streets, everything's already gone to hell. More 
commonly, the prince comes up with a general strategic 
overview of how he wants the city protected, what (and who) 
he considers most important and what’s expendable, and 
then leaves the tactics to the sheriff. 

Things don’t always run smoothly in the heat of battle, 
and complicating factors like lingering conditionings from 
uses of Dominate and the power of the blood bond can make 
giving orders an exercise in frustration for even the most 
exceptional tactician. While defense of the city does take 
precedence over most personal rivalries, it’s not always easy 
to get the impedimentia of peacetime out of the way so that 
war can be waged most efficiently. 


FRONTS 

Camarilla tacticians know that they are beset on all 
sides. They also know that the Camarilla does not have the 
resources for a multiple-front war, even if that is the specter 
currently confronting them. With that in mind, the Camarilla 
makes a conscious effort to turn its enemies on one another, 
or at least to keep them off-balance to the point where the 
attacks come one at a time, rather than all at once. 

To that end, the Camarilla’s scions make more than occa- 
sional deals with the Devil. In a hundred cities, the dance goes 
on every night. Bargains are struck with incautious Lupines for 
swatches of territory that house Setite temples or Sabbat ad- 
vance bases, or with a Sabbat pack far from home to “ally” against 
a marauding couple of kuei-jin (all the while attempting to 
maneuver the pack to the front lines to take the brunt of the 
enemy offensive, of course). Such short-term alliances are never 
carved in stone — treachery and the appearance of new threats 
means that these alliances are always short-term; the old ally is 
expendable to help deal with the new danger. The idea, in the 
end, is to preserve the Camarilla. Everything else is secondary — 
destruction of enemies isa method of safeguarding the Camarilla’s 
security. There are even a fair number of important Camarilla 
figures (more than one might immediately suspect) who hon- 
estly would not care what the Sabbat did so long as it left the 
Camarilla alone. Alas, then, that vampiric population pressure, 
age-old rivalries and the manipulations of the masters of the 
Jyhad ensure that such a state can never come to pass. 


TACTICS 


ONTHEATTACK 

It is rare for the Camarilla to go on an all-out offensive, 
as there just isn’t the manpower (or reasonable facsimile 
thereof) todo it properly. Furthermore, the average Camarilla 
vampire is firmly attached to her unlife — she’s been a 
vampire long enough to know exactly what she’s risking by 
charging the tenement that the local Sabbat has had time to 
turn into a deathtrap. On the other hand, the Sabbat troops 
that invading Cammies are likely to run into are fresh out of 
the grave and haven’t yet had it sink in that they've got all of 
eternity in front of them; ergo, they're more than willing to 
mount suicidal defenses. What it boils down to is that 
Camarilla vampiresare naturally cautious, none moreso than 
those who know that they're in enemy territory. Any offensives 
that these overly cautious vampires launch, then, are likely to 
be more than overly cautious. No one wants to risk his 
immortal skin unless it’s absolutely unavoidable, and even 
younger Camarilla vampires aren't overjoyed about being 
ordered into dangerous spots, unless compelled by supernatu- 
ral or other means. 

As a result, Camarilla offensives are slow ones, marked by 
long periods of subversion beforehand and spearheaded by mor- 
tals and ghouls. If the sect’s vampires are lucky, they never have 
to fire a shot or raise a talon in order to accomplish their aims. 
When the problem is just a single Sabbat pack, roving the 


countryside in a souped-up van, there’s no need for actual 
vampires to dirty their hands. A phone call to a ghouled state 
police supervisor here, a small bribe administered there, and 
suddenly there are state troopers crawling all over the offending 


vehicle an hour after sunrise. The matter is taken care of, a little 
bit more of highway is safe for Camarilla vampires to travel once 
again, and no one important was threatened — at least to the 
Camarilla way of thinking. 

Even when more direct measures are called for, Camarilla 
tacticians prefer to go for Sabbat support mechanisms — 
havens, feeding grounds and the like. Clean up a neighbor- 
hood, andall ofa sudden a pack’s depredations stand out to the 
city’s gendarmes. Put up a building on an empty lot, and 
suddenly the antitribu don’t have any place for their rites any 
more. Nudge the local diocese to send a few priests who really 
believe intoa Sabbat-infested neighborhood, and there's going 
to bea True Faith-flavored surprise for any Lasombra who gets 
too cocky. And while each of these steps may not seem like 
much, they add up — and with minimal risk to the vampires 
pulling the strings. The Camarilla has far greater mortal 
resources than its opponent does, and is not afraid to use them. 
Better a half-dozen police officers get killed in flushing out a 
basement haven than a single loyal Kindred. 

There are times, however, when. vampire-on-vampire 
conflict is unavoidable. Even in these cases, Camarilla agents 
try to protect and surround themselves with heavily armed and 
armored ghouls, blood bound and eminently willing to die to 


The Guide 10 THE CAMARILLA 


144 


DIABLERIE 
Attacks on Sabbat positions provide one of the few 
chances for sanctioned diablerie that a Camarilla vam- 
pire is likely ever to see. While there is no official 
Camarilla policy on the matter, the unofficial rule has 
always been, “Take care of business first — and don’t let 
us catch you at i 


protect their “patrons.” Camarilla strategists do prefer surgical 
fights as opposed to protracted sieges. They'd rather pick a 
target, isolate it, then hit it hard with everything they have and 
overwhelm the opposition through a precise application of 
force. Ideally, there is only one target to hit at a time, as 
Camarilla forces can't afford to be stretched too thin or they'll 
be swamped under the seemingly endless numbers that the 
Sabbat can bring to bear. So, orice a building is targeted, it’s 
taken floor by floor, starting from the ground up, with a ring of 
support “troops” on surrounding buildings and covering escape 
routes. Camarilla assaults are thorough, efficient and bloody; 
the attackers make certain of their kills before movingon tonew 
targets. Once a building is reduced, the strike team moves onto 
the next one, and then the next — speed is of the essence. The 
Camarilla cannot win a war of attrition, so its offensives need to 
be fast and deadly. 

Camarilla pushes are also bound by the necessity of keeping 
up the Masquerade, and armed assaults on Sabbat strongholds 
are by necessity not terribly subtle. As such, Camarilla attack 
teams need to have some sort of cover in place, as they can'tbum 
down the building they've just emptied every time. At moments 
like this, the Camarilla’s decided advantage in mortal resources 
comes into play. A noisy but ineffective shootout between the 
forces of two Camarilla-controlled drug lords makes for perfect 
camoflauge for a vampiric operation, as any witnesses are more 
than likely tosee the entire action —humansand vampires both 
— in terms they understand. Getting construction crews, transit 
authority workers, gas company employeesand other mortals in 
positions that give them access to lots of yellow tape that reads 
“Do Not Cross” to cordon off zones of conflict also serves 
Camarilla purposes — any banging, shouting, shooting or other 
loud noises can be explained as part of the “problem” necessitat- 
ing the clearance of the area. 


DEFENDING THE CITIES 

Defense of Camarilla territory is ruthless. It is the cities, 
more than any individual vampire, that the Camarilla must 
defend in order to remain a viable entity. One can always 
Embrace new Kindred, but there are justsomanycitiesavailable 
to be occupied, and not enough places to put new ones. Many 
younger Camarilla vampires don’t understand the sanctity of 
territory, thinking it's better to retreat to another city and fight 
another night. The elders, the wise ones who have seen the 
game played out forahalfa millennium, know better. Every city 
is at once an armory and a source of supplies, not to mention a 
nigh-limitless source of new recruits. Moreover, vampires are 


creatures of place and habit. In addition, Caine’s childer, 
particularly those who have seen a few decades on the other side 
of the grave, prefer security and comfortable surroundings. To 
such vampires, the loss of a home is more than just a matter of 
movinga line on a map a few miles. It is the loss of identity, the 
violent uprooting of tendrils that have been carefully laid down 
over decades. For all these reasons, and more, the Camarilla 
defends its own with the fury of a lioness defending her cubs. 

Defensive tactics put into play against the Sabbat are 
simple: Figure out what and who ina city is expendable. Defend 
the rest to the Final Death. Use mortal and ghoul forces to keep 
relentless daytime pressure on Sabbat encampments. Burn 
down as many buildings as you have to in order to get the 
invaders, and blame it on an arson wave — have your ghouls 
smile for the news crews while lighting the flames, if necessary. 
The area can always be rebuilt later, providing opportunities 
and rewards for whatever neonates and ancillae distinguish 
themselves in the city’s defense. 

Speed of response time is also key to Camarilla defenses. If 
the Sabbat gains a foothold in a city, then the sect can start 
mass-creating shock troops within the contested zone. Notonly 
does this produce more opposition at a nigh-exponential rate, 
but italso threatens the Masquerade. If the Sabbat is allowed to 
get “energetic” in its recruiting, the defenders’ resources need to 
be split between actual defense of the city and protecting the 
Camarilla’s veil of secrecy. The pressure only increases as time 
goes by. If the infection is not bumed out quickly, it may never 
be burned out at all. 

If truth be told, the Camarilla almost welcomes frontal 
assaults from the Sabbat. Yes, Kindred may be destroyed, 
property smashed and resources used up, but in such cases the 
enemy is visible, recognizable and ultimately driven off. Infil- 
tration by deep-cover Sabbat operatives, on the other hand, is 


War COTERIES 

The war coterie is a relatively recent invention, with 
the credit (or blame) going at the feet of the late Lodin of 
Chicago. Essentially sanctioned privateers (or the land- 
going, bloodsucking equivalent thereof), war coteries are 
bands of neonates and the occasional ancilla who's feeling 
constricted in her current position, given carte blanche to go 
out onto the mean streets and wreak havoc upon the sect’s 
enemies. War coteries operate under only the loosest 
guidelines from the local sheriff or prince, who essentially 
wind the coteries up, point them at a convenient enemy 
and let them go. If the coterie manages to do something 
effective, there's cheering all around and the survivors find 
themselves rewarded (though potentially targeted todo the 
same thingall overagain the nexttime there’saneed). Ifthe 
coterie goes down in flames, well, that’s one fewer batch of 
potential troublemakers around, and everyone else in the 
city gets an object lesson in why haring off after the Sabbat 
without strict direction is a bad idea. 


‘Tet Ren oF Imwortauny:Tacncs AnD Systems 


145 


every prince's nightmare. The slow cancer of subversion rots 
out many a city that might be strong enough to withstand any 
frontal assault. As a result, any prince worth her salt is 
onstantly in a state of nigh-certafiable paranoia. Which 
ancilla is dissatisfied enough to deal with the enemy? What 
neonates haven't received enough guidance from their sires, 
and have been seduced by the promises of an infiltrator? What 
primogen member, believing the Sabbat’s hollow promises 
that the invaders will withdraw “once this current prince is 
toppled,” is planning a coup? It’s hard to tell, and oftentimes 
the paranoia that the threat of an infiltrator engenders does as 
much for the Sabbat cause as an actual mole would have. 
Therefore, most princes have in place elaborate counter 
intelligence measures. Options range from bribing anarchs 
to hang with the Sabbat to bring back information, to 
kidnapping neonates and ancillae for Dominate-enhanced 
interrogations (with all memories wiped afterward, of course) 


to giving sheriffs broad powers of enforcement to deal with 


suspected traitors. The latter, to no one’s surprise, rarely 


works, but stubborn princes keep on trying it anyway 


DEALING WITH THE MENAGERIE 


The Sabbat isn’t the Camarilla’s only enemy, just its most 
prominent and dangerous one. However, conflicts with the 
independent clans, Lupines and whatnot rarely require all-out 
war. Instead, brushfire conflicts are the norm. The Camarilla 
and Lupines, while far from any official accord, both know the 
rules of the game they play: The cities belong to the vampires, 
the country to the Garou, and anyone who trespasses is fair 
game. More geopolitically aware Kindred refer to the arr 
ment as a “Good Fence,” and try not to rock the boat 

Dealing with the independent clans isa bit trickier. While 
either the Camarilla or the Sabbat could, presumably, crush the 
independents one at a time, the victor would be weakened and 
easy prey for the opposite sect as a result. Conversely, the 
support of one of the independentsas an ally isa valuable weight 
on the scales of conflict, and as such the Camarilla finds itself 
often wooing the independents to the point of overlooking 
trespasses that would not be tolerated in, say, a Toreador 
Eventually, though, the Setites, Giovanni or what have you 
cross the line of acceptable behavior and need to be taught a 
lesson. Often, the fatal debate is over a lucrative Camarilla-run 
business that an independent is encroaching upon (drugs, porn 
and numbers are the prime grounds for conflict with the Setites, 
for example). Less frequently, members of independent clans 
flout their non-Camarilla status by violating the Traditions, 
leaving the aggrieved prince of the city no choice but to act 
regardless if there’s any real evidence or not. In such cases, the 
general principle behind Camarilla action is to resolve the 
matter quickly: Send in overwhelming force to deal with the 
problem vampires, annihilate them, and make apologies and 
token concessions to appease the offenders’ clan leadership. 
Unlike hostile dealings with the Sabbat, when it comes to the 
independents the Camarilla does have the advantage of num: 


bers, and it likes to use it 


Tee Gu 


THE CAMARILLA 
146 


Open and armed conflict, however, is rare. The local prince 
is much more likely to impose “feeding sanctions,” mount a 
harassment campaign through mortal catspaws, or even extract 
concessions from clan leadership to make recompense for the 
“offenses” of the interlopers. Aggressive warfare on anyone's part, 
though, is infrquent. It's just too expensive for all concemed. 


PRESTATION 


While power may be the true currency of the Kindred, 
boons and favors also enjoy a healthy trade. The process of 
trading, repaying and incurring favors (called prestation), is the 
lifeblood of the vampiric economy. A wise vampire grants 
favors; a foolish one incurs them and becomes beholden to his 
benefactors. A vampire who requests assistance often enough 
soon finds his entire existence dictated by the obligations he has 
incurred; in exchange for whatever tokens of help he requested, 
he becomes a puppet of his benefactors. 


ACCRUING DEBT 

The process of racking up a prestation debt isa simple one. 
Either a vampire asks another of her kind for assistance in a 
matter, in return for a favor of some sort at a later date, or a 
vampire renders another assistance in a crisis, with it being 
understood that the help will be repaid later. Sensible Kindred 
keep very close tabs on whom they owe favors to, and take great 
care not to rack up more debts than they can afford to pay back 
at any given time. Prestation debts can be called in at literally 
any time, so it pays to make sure that you have the resources to 
pay, regardless of circumstance. Some Kindred do make a habit 
of racking up as many debts as possible as a form of protection, 
operating on the theory that their manifold creditors will want 
to keep them in one piece in order to collect. 

Not all debts are accrued voluntarily, however. Elders 
are past masters at maneuvering younger Kindred into posi- 
tions where they have no choice but to ask for help, thus 
placing themselves in an elder’s thrall. For example, a corpo- 
ration controlled by an elder might purchase the building a 
promising neonate lives in and immediately start harassing 
her with maintenance checks, surprise inspections, fumiga- 
tions and the like. Eventually the neonate has no choice but 
to seek relief, which leads her to the elder’s doorstep. The 
favor is extended, and the neonate has placed her first foot on 
the elder’s spiderweb. 

Expert players at the game of prestation also like placing 
potential debtors into perilous situations and then rescuing 
them dramatically, thus placing the “hapless victims” in their 
debt. A favorite tactic involves letting knowledge of a 
vampire’s haven slip to a hunter, then swooping in as the 
hunter makes his move. From the rescue it's only a short step 
to helping the neonate find a new haven (“This one is clearly 
unsafe,”), and, inch by inch, the victim is thus ensnared. 


INTEREST 
It is not in a vampire’s best interest to cash in the favors 
she has acquired immediately. After all, a vampire who is 


known to owe you a favor is likely to come under suspicion if 
you disappear (see page 149), with potentially fatal conse- 
quences. Asa result, any Kindred is as safe as can be expected 
from any of her debtors. 

Surety of safety isn’t the only reason to hang ontoa favor. 
As long as one of the Kindred has a debt hanging over him, 
he must always be aware of the possibility of having his 
marker called in. He can’t act as freely as he might otherwise, 
for fear of being called on to repay his debt. Holding a debt 
over a vampire and insinuating that repayment might be due 
at any moment is a superb method of paralyzing a Kindred, 
stripping him of his maneuverability and forcing him to 
reserve some of his resources against the possibility. 

Furthermore, a vampire who owes another a debt is per- 
ceived as being inferior to the vampire whom she owes. This 
perception only applies to those who know about a debt — but 
any Kindred who gets a line on a powerful peer lets the whole 
world know about it as quickly as possible. As a result, the 
creditor gains prestige, the debtor loses it. Even better, the 
longer the debt can be sustained, the more prestige accrues to 
thecreditor. It is in the interest of the vampire holding the favor 
to hang onto it as long as possible, then, though most creditors 
take care to avoid yanking their debtors’ leashes too hard or too 
often. Once the debt is discharged, it’s socially permissible for 
anabused debtor to take vengeance onan overly harsh creditor. 


PaAvinc OFF 

Few Kindred like the idea of having lingering debts. It’s 
embarrassing socially, painful financially and potentially 
hazardous. As a result, most vampires attempt to pay off their 
prestation debts as soon as they can safely do so. As creditors 
have a vested interest in stringing those debts out, the result 
can be a game of cat and mouse, with the debtors frantically 
attempting to do their creditors favors and the creditors 
dodging anything that might conceivably be construed as a 
kindness from their debtors. 

Debts among the Kindred rarely take specific shape, as it 
were. [tis uncommon fora vampire to request a detailed service. 
Rather, debts are kept nebulous — “I'll simply ask for your help 
with something down the road.” This ambiguity works both for 
and against the creditor. The indistinct nature of the debt helps 
keeps those on the short end of prestation on their toes, as they 
never know what they might be asked for. On the other hand, 
since the nature of the debt is fuzzy, itis common for Kindred to 
perform some sort of favor for their creditors in hopes of 
canceling the prestation debt. Particularly energetic or devious 

ampires maneuver their creditors into situations wherein they 
can appear on the scene and render assistance, thus wiping out 
the imbalance. Such attempts should be made very carefully, 
though — if they backfire or are found out, the instigator just 
sinks deeper into debt and becomes a target of derision as well. 

What form payback takes depends on the size and type of 
debt incurred. It is considered bad form to ask for excessive 
repayment of minor debts; in such cases, the debtor is usually 
free to laugh off the request, and the debt itself is canceled, 


The RevtH oF Ineworraumy:TACTiCS AND SYSTEMS 


147 


more often than not. On the other hand, no vampire wants to 
leta debt go frivolously by asking for too little. Doing so isa sure 
path to being made a target by the harpies, more than canceling 
any status gain made by acquiring the debt in the first place. 

In truth, the actual repayment of the debt is almost 
incidental to the process of prestation. It is the debt that 
matters, the artistry of the creation or dispersal of the obliga- 
tion and the webs of allegiance strung by favors owed 
Actually paying off whatever is demanded is somehow anti 
climactic in all but the most dire circumstances. 


When a debt is finally repaid, however, more often than 


not it is done so publicly. Sample forms of payments include 


boons (especially that of creation, if the prince is the debtor), 
favorite ghouls or mortal pawns, assistance in financial or 
martial arenas, tutoring in Disciplines or even just the perfor- 
mance of publicly humiliating acts. Often favors involve one 
Kindred lobbying another ona third vampire’s behalf, usually 
as regards matters of creation or interference in the mortal 
world. Asking for a service that is overly hazardous, or 
demanding that one’s debtor break the Traditions is forbid 
den by long custom; if nothing else getting one’s debtor killed 
ensures that you can’t use him again. On the other hand, a 
sufficiently subtle vampire can get around these restrictions, 
and prestation has been used to eliminate any number of 
incautious Kindred. The harpies usually end up being the 
ultimate arbiter of whether the repayment is suitable, though 
they hold no official capacity in this matter. 


Swaps 

As with everything else, the Kindred trade prestation 
debts like children trade baseball cards. They are constantly 
swapped, retrieved, dangled and otherwise moved aroundso 
that it becomes dizzying to keep track of who owes what to 
whom. While there is no formal system for trading favors — 
all such arrangements operate more along the lines of, 
“Hmm, Desmond owes me some consideration; l'Il tell him 
to talk to you if you let Reese know that I could use his 
assistance with my little Gangrel problem.” — there is one 
sinequanon involved in the process. The vampire whose debt 
is being traded must be informed as to his new creditor, 
otherwise he runs the risk of blowing off a perfectly valid 
request for what he thinks is a perfectly valid reason, and 
instead causing the whole system to break down. 

Besides, letting an inferior know thatyoudidn’teven feel 
his debt was worth hanging on to is a wonderful way of 
reinforcing his social status beneath you. The transmission of 
debtisasmucha part ofthe game of prestation asanything else. 


FORMALITY 
At first glance, it seems that the weight that the Kindred 
place on incurred favors and the like is completely ludicrous. 
Don't like owing a Nosferatu a favor? Blow him off! He's only 
a Nosferatu! He can’t do anything if you don’t pay up, right? 
Wrong. 


DEFINING BOONS 

Most young Kindred learn the art of prestation (if 
they're lucky) as the art of giving and granting favors; 
20th-century vampires define it as “you scratch my back, 
I scratch yours.” Unfortunately, more often the neonates 
come to prestation only through being taken advantage 
of by skilled elders, giving them no chance to learn under 
more “forgiving” conditions. 

Many an inexperienced Kindred (youth and elder 
alike) has dug themselves into horrendous debt due to 
their ignorance of the levels of prestation. This is not 
entirely through their own making; not a few harpies 
brokering deals have assisted the matter by choosing not 
to inform a Kindred about his potential mistake or by 
deliberate misinformation when it suited them (this of 
course gives them the opportunity to “help” the unfortu- 
nate one by leveling another debt to have the first one 
renegotiated). 

The levels defined below are what passes for defini- 
tion across most of the Camarilla; regions, ages of the 
Kindred in question, previous working relations and 
extenuating circumstances (such as war) may all play a 
part in the negotiations. 

e Minor boon — This is given in return for some 
small favor, such as the loan of something and its return, 
or for political support that did not risk or inconvenience 


The sanctity ofthe prestation system is very important to 
the Camarilla, especially to the elders who have spent centu- 
ries carefully accruing favors from others. If it suddenly 
becomes acceptable to welch on one’s prestation debt, then 
suddenly those elders’ stockpiles of favors become worthless. 
Needless to say, the elders in question don’t intend to allow 
that to happen. Those investments in favors are valuable, 
major resources in the mini-Jyhads the elders play. As such, 
they have a vested interest in keeping the formality of the 
prestation system intact. 

Any attempt by a Kindred to wriggle out of a prestation 
debt is met with immediate and overwhelming response. A 
soon as the harpies hear of the affair, the offender's reputation 
is effectively trashed. He loses status and finds himself fol- 
lowed by derisive gossip. Alliances, particularly those based 
on favors given in the past, wither. Enemies spread slander 
about what other agreements the offender is unlikely to 
honor, paying homage to the time-honored Camarilla tradi- 
tion of kicking a man when he’s down. Other Kindred to 
whom the vampire owes favors call those favors due, daring 
him to break his word again and dig himself in even deeper. 
The offender has a choice of paying back all the favors he 
owes at once or cementing his reputation as untrustworthy. 


The former can place the vampire in a dangerous or exposed 
position, and certainly has the potential to drain his resources 


the giver’s standing. It is expected that the receiver will 
return the favor in similar fashion. While minor boons 
may not sound like much to worry about, a collection of 
them carefully placed and called in can be the prelude to 
a devastating gambit. Most vampires of any sect or clan 
consider the acts of granting and returning minor boons 
tobe common politeness, and a vampire who does not do 
so is considered to be beyond even the harpies’ scorn. 

e Major boon — A major boon is collected in return 
for items loaned that did not return or returned damaged 
(such as ghouls, weapons, artwork), political support that 
involved considerable risk and/or inconvenience to the 
giver or his standing, and for physical assistance during an 
assault that was not life-threatening. Major boons can be 
quite handy to have in the political arena during con- 
claves, or during wartime to force the hand of Kindred 
who have been slow to offer resources or support. 

© Life boon — A life boon entails the spectacular 
debts that prestation is famous for. In most cases, the 
debtor literally owes his continued unlife to the boon- 
holder, and the boon-holder can demand quite a bit 
before considering the debt paid — how much is the 
debtor's life worth to him? The collection of a life boon 
ata crucial moment can force a debtor to vote against his 
own dearly held cause or to betray a friend. 


to a critical point. The latter offers the chance to make a 
whole new round of enemies, as Kindred denied their due are 
rarely forgiving. 

Furthermore, the reputation one gets for welching on 
favors is not easily shaken, and the stench of it will follow the 
offender for decades. In the meanwhile, he finds obtaining 
help from anyone to be nigh-impossible, unless he’s willing to 
pay usurious rates for assistance. Vampires are by nature a 
cautious race, and a Kindred who breaks faith is the sort of risk 
no Camarilla investor wants to assume. 


Dean Fies 

While the Kindred who attempts to get out of a 
debt has it bad, the one who kills his creditor to avoid 
paying gets infinitely worse treatment. As it is the 
elders who hold most of the debts, they’re the most 
likely targets for assassination if this practice is allowed 
to flourish. As a result, they come down hard on those 
who kill to escape paying. The best a Kindred who 
takes this route can expect is a blood hunt; the worst is 
unspeakable — but rest assured that the stories get 
around, so as to discourage other would-be killers. 


The Revi oF IMmoktanmy:TACTCS AND Systems 


149 


The city of right angles and tough, damaged people 


— Pete Hammill 


Vampires are, by definition, urban creatures, and the 
Camarilla takes this tendency to extremes. Away from the 
sheltering streets and skyscrapers, the Kindred find them- 
selves out of their element. There are no sewers for the 
Nosferatu along the interstates, no Elysiums in small towns or 
highway rest stops. To make matters worse, there are matters 
of survival to consider — the scarcity of prey and prolife 
tion of Lupines away from the cities offer double incentive for 
Kindred to keep to their home territory. 

As a result, the vast majority of Vampire chronicles, 
especially those involving the Camarilla (the Sabbat pack 
mentality lends itself to a bit more experimentation outside the 
city limits), are bounded by the borders of the metropolitan 
area. With that in mind, it behooves the Storyteller of a 
Camarilla-based chronicle to have as detailed a city setting as 
possible, one that allows for a wide variety of stories without 
descending into caricature or chaos. This chapter is a guide to 
building a city for a Camarilla chronicle literally from the 
ground up — or to co-opting one that already exists and 
bringing it into the World of Darkness. 


Not 


THe BASICS 


If you are going to create a city to hold your game, there 


This chapter is intended for Storyteller use only. 


are a great many questions you're going to have to be 
prepared to answer about it. Remember, your characters 
will go places in the city youdon’t expect them to. They will 


ask where the dumpsters are and if there are alleys they can 
duck down, which directions the streets run and how much 
local phone calls cost. Unfortunately, you can’t map out 
absolutely everything — if you did you'd have precious little 
time for anything silly like eating or sleeping — but there 
are steps you can take to prepare for moments when the 
story wanders into terra incognita. 

The better and more fully realized your city is, the easier it 
isforyoutoextrapolate on thefly thedetails youhaven’t mapped 
out yet. The work and care you put into preparing your setting 
for play invariably pays off during your chronicle, when knowl- 
edge of your creation allows you to let the character wander its 
streets freely. Nothing wrecks the mood of a chronicle more 
completely than a Storyteller saying, “You can’t go there,” as a 
way of covering up for incomplete preparation. Vampires are 
lords of the night — the streets are their domain and they can go 
wherever they wish. The loss of a neighborhood (or even a 
building) to nothing in particular diminishes both the vampires’ 
unholy swagger and the reality of the chronicle. 

To avoid moments like that, you need to know your city. 
Youneed to know its mood, its feel, its architecture, its industri 
and more. It’salot of work, yes, but the process isa rewarding one. 


LAYING THE GROUNDWORK 


Before you create the first vampire with whom to populate 
your metropolis of the night, you need to ponder the most 
central character in your chronicle: the city herself. Her history, 
mood, theme and very existence are what make up the bedrock 


Tre Cay By Nieat:Bunoinc Your Sermnc 


151 


of your chronicle. If you can’t answer the following questions, 
your city isn’t ready for your players yet, and any scenario you try 
to create will eventually collapse under its own weight. 


REAL OR IMAGINED? 

The first decision you have to make is whether or not your 
city is a real one. There are benefits and drawbacks to either 
choice. If you decide to set your chronicle in the World of 
Darknessequivalent ofa real world city, a lotofthe hard work has 
already been done for you. The city’s geography and the basics of 
its history are already in place, and all you have to do is apply 
vampiric shadings. On the other hand, centuries of established 
history makes for a lot of research and limits your options to an 
extent; if your playersare familiar with local history, they 
to take umbrage at your rewriting it too cavalierly 

On the other hand, building your city literally from the 
ground up gives youa blank canvas on which to work. History, 
location, street maps — all of them await your whim. The 
fictional city is completely your creation, from top to bottom. 
Unfortunately, that means that you have to create everything 
in it —and that’s a great deal of work. There's more to a city’s 
history than edited highlights and more toa city’s map than a 
few main highways and a financial district. Once you make the 


commitment to create a city, there’s no doing things halfway. 


Homeor Away? 

If you choose to use an existing city as a base, 
need to decide whether to use your home town. While it can 
be tempting todoso, looking at your neighborhood with rose- 


you also 


colored mirrorshades can limit your options. With roughly 
100,000 mortals required to support a single vampire, setting 
your campaign in a small city — even if you know it inti- 
mately —can severely limit your Storyteller character options. 
If your city can only support three Kindred and you have five 
players, certain problems of population present themselves. If 
your home town can support a reasonable game, however, it 
does give you a tremendous hand with Storytelling. 

One of the main advantages of using your home city as the 
basis for your chronicle is the fact that you have in-depth 
knowledge of the place. Knowing where the clubs, the burned- 
outcrack housesand the skyscrapers are reflexively allows you to 
move your chronicle to those places smoothly and rapidly. Being 
familiar with hangouts, restaurants and local slang lets you drop 
pertinent and real details into your story, and give it the sort of 
verite that adds to your players’ immersion and enjoyment. 

Ifyou choose a city that’s not your own, it’s always a good 
idea to research it thoroughly first — and to make sure that 
it will spawn enough story ideas to sustain your chronicle. 


There's little sense in investing the time to learn a place 
satisfactorily, only to discover that the city doesn’t hold 


interest for your players. 

Travel books make excellent resources for this sort of 
research, asdo the brochures and pamphlets that acity’s tourist 
bureau is more than happy to send out. Many cities also have 


web sites these days, allowing for instant access to history, 


EMINENT DOMAIN 

So you want to run achronicle set in your home city, 
but there's already published material on it. Even worse, 
the material that’s in print doesn’t jibe with what you 
want to do with your home town — how can your 
characters aspire to the princedom if a book states very 
clearly that there's an angry sixth-generation Ventrue 
id claim to the throne and who brooks no dissent? 

Fear not — you have plenty of options. You don't 
have to accept the published continuity if you don’t want 
to — if your St. Louis doesn’t jibe with our St. Louis, well, 
it’s your game and you won't hurt our feelings by changing 
it. Your chronicle is implicitly yours, to do with as you 
wish, and that’s all there is to it. 

On the other hand, there's a lot of work that’s already 
been done for you when you decide to run a game in a pre- 
created setting. If the setting as it stands doesn’t work for you, 
but you don’t want to rebuild the city from the ground up, 
there are compromises that you can make. The easiest is to 
run through the published setting, see what you like about it, 
and simply replace the rest. Another is to see where the city 
is, decide what you want it to be, and have the plot of your 
game be the progression from actual to ideal. Instead of 
simply removing a Storyteller character, you can have him 
assassinated in play and the characters put to the task of 
investigating. In that fashion, your exercise in world-build- 
ing becomes the players’ plot twist. You get what you want 
out of your setting while the players get to game without 
waiting for you to recreate the entire city. 

Just don’t stress about what you “can” and “can’t” do. 
It’s your game and your city. Do with both what you will. 


who's 


tourist 
high pointsallows you to concentrate the action in regions you 
know while buying time for you to do further research. 


Wnart Is Tue Moon? 
ond the propaganda that tourist center bro- 
chcity tends tohave amood and apersonality. 
Identifying your city's mood is a key step in identifying what sort 
of chronicles will run well there. A history of warfare and 
sprinkling of monuments give a city one flavor; urban renewal 
with lots of glass, chrome and steel provides another. If you look 


tractions and street maps. Having an idea of the city’s 


's downtown region and see looming gothic architec- 
ture, narrow streets and weathered gargoyles, the locale probably 
lends itself better to chronicles of intrigue and conspiracy than it 
does to random gun battles in the streets. 


at your ci 


WnHy Is Ir CAMARILLA® 

“Tihs easy ariver to bigaan Basiea 
so,” but that doesn’t do a lot to help your chronicle along. 
Instead, you should look at the resources the city has to offer to 
see reasons the Camarilla wants to maintain control of this 


place. Perhaps there's a high-tech belt to the west of the city 


The GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


152 


Tue Pissinc MATCH 

The most common pitfall attached to using your 
home town as the site of your chronicle is the know-it-all 
player, who invariably attempts to use his superior knowl- 
edge of the setting to derail the story. Getting drawn into 
arguments as to what exactly the name of the restaurant 
at 4th and South is, or how long ago a particular club 
closed, is extremely detrimental to your chronicle. The 
other players get bored, or worse, get involved in the 
debate. And if everyone’s debating the minor details of 
city geography, no one’s roleplaying. 

The best thing to do if stuck with this sort of player is to 
remind him, gently, that the city in the World of Darkness 
is not the real city, and that things have changed a little bit. 
After all, this is your version of your home town, not his, and 
you have every right to let him know who's in charge. 


that the younger Ventrue have decided is the key to their future 
success, or the city’s port is a strategic point for smuggling 
Kindred in and out of the country. Maybe the city holds fond 
memories for certain elders, and they're not willing to relin- 
quish the place, or pethaps a slumbering Methuselah has 
commanded in dreams that this city be maintained for her. 

By cataloging what the city holds to keep the Camarilla 
in place, you're also cataloging what there is of interest to 
vampires in the city. Knowing what areas of control are 
possible allows you to start thinking about the Kindred who 
control them. Knowing what's out there that’s attractive lays 
the groundwork for populating the city, and also thinking 
about the possible conflicts within the city itself. Ifa city loses 
its heavy manufacturing sector, the Brujah who controlled 
that industry and fed off its successes suddenly finds himself 
withouta power base. At that point, he may seek to take away 
the domain of another Kindred, or his enemies may seek to 
annihilate him when he’s at his weakest ebb. 


QUESTIONS OF GEOGRAPHY 


The physical makeup and layout of your city dictates in 
large part what sort of stories you can run comfortably in your 
game. If your city has just undergone a major urban renews 
complete with revitalized downtown area and gentrified 
neighborhoods, it may not necessarily be suitable for a game 
based around a the struggle to revitalize a declining manufac- 
turing base in the face of Ventrue opposition. 


Wuat Does tHe Map Loox Like? 

Before doing anything else, get a map of your city (or 
create it, {youhave to) and look at the town’s physical layout. 
Get familiar with major access routes and important landmarks 
(airports, city hall, hospitals, police headquarters, etc.), and 
estimate how long it roughly takes to reach them when one is 
in a Rotschreck-fueled hurry. Note neighborhood and district 
divisions — being able to tell the run-down parts of town from 
the trendy shopping districts is important when it comes to 
placing your fictional landmarks. Finally, think about which 


parts of town your players’ characters are likely to be comfort- 
able in and which ones will find them out of their element. 


WHICH Praces Matter? 

Not all sites are created equal. This is a truth so obvious it 
hardly seems worth repeating, but when it comes to mapping out 
your city it’s important to remember that fact. Some chunks of real 
estate are more desirable to Kindred than others. Some afford 
financial or temporal power; others offer easy access to feeding or 
prime candidates for ghouling. Then there are transportation hubs, 
important parts of the city’s physical plant and so on. A Nosferatu 
who has his talons in the city’s water treatment station has a great 
deal more actual power than a Toreador who owns a dozen trendy 
clubs; the former can bring the metropolis to its knees, while the 
latter offers mortals a hip and happening good time. 

It is important to figure out which buildings and institu- 
tions in the city matter to your vampires, and from there to 
determine which sites are relevant to which individual Kin- 
dred. City hall, police headquarters and the like are obvious 
places to start, but they're just starting points. If a mortal 
institution has power or influence, a vampire is going to want 
to get her hands on it. So establish which places might 
conceivably afford a vampire an advantage to inhabit or 
influence, and work from there. Some possible examples: 

© Prisons — They offer extensive feeding possibilities, 
assorted underworld connections and potential ghouls with 
all sorts of useful skills 

e Airports — Airports offer rapid transportation in and 
out. They also provide tremendous smuggling opportunities, 
and can be a great way to bottleneck arriving Kindred. Ifa city 
has multiple airports, there may well be a power struggle to 
control all of the air routes into or out of the city. 

* Train and Bus Stations — Like airports, only less so. 
More important for snagging anarchs and refugees. 

* Freight Yards and Working Ports — Smuggling, orga- 
nized labor and access to and from a city without the need for 
a passport. 


VISUALIZATION TOOLS 

Often it’s helpful to imagine the defining anima of a 
city as an individual. Think about the city’s history, indus- 
try, population and architecture, and then collate all of that 
into the image of a single person. Try to avoid stereotypes 
— not everyone in Minneapolis talks like an extra from 
Fargo, for example. Then again, the defining moments of a 
city’s heritage do need to be addressed. Atlanta may have 
been bumed 13 decades ago, but the matter still subtly 
informs many residents’ attitudes even today. 

Once you achieve a working personification of a city’s 
soul, it can get easier to work up other details of the city. It’s 
often lot simpler to figure out what goes well with a person 
than with a city as a whole. Remember, what you're going 
for is generalities and basics. If you try to work in all of the 
details this early in the process, you'll never finish. 


Tre Coy By Niaat:Buoinc Your Sern 


153 


e Higher Education — A city’s colleges and universities, 
particularly those with good party scenes, make for excellent 
feeding opportunities. Outstanding students and graduate stu- 
dents can be targeted for ghouling or even the Embrace, and if 
the school has any sort of research wing, there’s access to grant 
money and the fruits of that research as well. Then again, a 
supposed community of scholars might be of interest to Kindred 
with an interest in Noddist or other lore... 

e Local Branches of Government Departments — The 
ability to call in audits, levy fines or shut down plants and 
businesses cannot be overestimated. Even something seem- 
ingly as unrelated to vampires as the EPA can be used to 
hamstring a business with astonishing speed. 

e Newspapers and Local Television — These mortal 
institutions are a must-have for those interested in protecting 
the Masquerade. The ability to kill or alter stories — or to 
insert them to serve the Kindred’s ends — makes influence in 
these areas powerful indeed. 


© Hospitals — For the squeamish, hospitals offer cached 
blood. For the ghoulish, they offer feeding. For the careless, 
they offer places to dispose of mistakes. 
e City Hall — For obvious re 
* Police Stations — Kindred with influence over the 
local police can call backup to deal with pesky opponents, or 


sons 


maneuver so that there are certain places that the police just 
know to leave alone... 

e Parks, Public Areas and Stadiums — Wide open 
spaces offer space to host meetings or conclaves, and gener- 
ally offer plenty of hiding places. 

* Trendy Clubs and Restaurants — These places to see 
and be seen offer plenty of business opportunities, feeding for 
Kindred of discriminatory taste and excellent sources of 
income. Peripheral businesses (narcotics, fencing, etc.) also 
often come with the territory. 

e Industrial and Manufacturing Centers — Manufac- 
turing plants are still the economic backbone of their cities in 
many cases. They also have connections to organized labor, 
links to shipping and often ties to financial institutions as well. 

* Stockyards — If your city has anything of a livestock 
industry, it has a perfect last-ditch hiding place and all-night 
cafeteria for losers in local brawls. 

* Homeless Shelters and Relief Agencies — Shelters 
offer plenty of victims who won't necessarily be missed. For 
the less immediately homicidal, surpassingly effective ghouls 
can be plucked from the residents of such places. 

¢ Real Estate Companies — Being able to buy, sell and 
have listings on havens is an advantage many Kindred would 
gladly pay for. 

e Fire Departments — Having the ability to delay the 
hook and ladder truck’s arrival at a rival’s burning haven is 
worth a great deal to some Kindred. 

e Local Charities — These can be touchstones for many 
local businesses. Someone with a stranglehold on the local 


office of a major charity gets to deal with all of the businesses 
who contribute... 

© Service Industries — Power meter readers, phone techni- 
ciansetalia getintoeveryone’shome. Everyone's. That sort ofaccess 
ispower, and that’s before youget into things like tracingor tapping 
cell phone calls, cutting off service at strategic times and so on. 

e Major Employers — The notion of the company town 
is not dead. Even today, some companies employ (directly or 
indirectly) large segments of a city’s population. Microsoft's 
impact on Seattle and Mercedes-Benz’s on Stuttgart makes 
that sort of thing worth taking advantage of. 

e Financial Centers — Controlling individual branches of 
banks is fine for getting petty cash or breaking into safe deposit 
boxes, but local stock exchanges or corporate headquarters are 
where the real money is. A little fiddling with the local stock 
index candowonders—or horrors—forfirms thatare thus listed. 

e The Morgue — A well-trained medical examiner is a 
vampire’s best friend. Even the best-intentioned Kindred 
makes mistakes sometimes, and inevitably one of those 
mistakes gets picked up. Having a finger on the man who 
writes the death certificates can be a valuable 
ing the Masquerade. 

* Underworld Businesses — The local numbers shop. 
Places that sell guns with the serial numbers filed off. Places to 


isset in preserv- 


get assault rifles, explosives and illegal narcotics. The Kindred 
don’t worry too much about going to jail, but they do worry about 
being able to kill, mutilate, drug or explode things on occasion. 
..-and so on. Note that this isn’t be be-all end-all of what 
sorts of places are of interest to Kindred — there’: 
chance thatsomeone will decide to take an interest in the zoo 
ora local sports team — nor will every one of the places listed 
above have a vampire squatting malevolently behind it. 
Instead, just consider which of these and similar places might 
matter to your Kindred, and pick and choose from there. 


always a 


When you're handing out places for Kindred to control, it 
also makes sense to establish which sites and institutions they 
don’t have a handle on. Working out what these places are and 
why the Kindred don’t at least influence them can produce 
interesting stories later on, when the characters try to establish 
control of these as-yet virgin territories. In the meantime, 
knowing why no one seems to have a handle on, say, the 
utilities (too many rivals maneuvering for it? princely edict? 
the local Monitor's haven? another supernatural protector’), 
youcan sprinkle hintsand ominous rumors into your chronicle. 


Wuere Do tHe KINDRED Go? 

There’s a world of difference between places the Camarilla 
likes to have a pallid finger on and those where individual 
vampires like to spend their time. Just because a Brujah has 
consolidated his influence in a city’s labor unions doesn’t mean 
that he necessarily enjoys whiling away his evenings at organi- 
zational meetingsorin factories. Thereare places where vampires 
gather and hunt (the so-called “Rack”), and that’s ground zero 
for most vampire-on-vampire interaction in a given city. 


The GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


154 


REDA 


Defining your city’s Rack takes more than just setting up a 
hip neo-Goth club and letting things go at that. If your vampires 
do frequent clubs, whatsort ofclubsare they, and whoownsthem? 
There’sa very good chance that the Gangrel aren’t going to hang 
out where the Toreador do, for example. As a result, you'll have 
to set up more than one club or bar in order to avoid artificially 
forcing all of your vampires under one roof. Don’t take the time 
to set up a club that’s frequented by each clan, though — it’s a 
waste of time and defeats the purpose of havinga club asa central 
meetingfinteraction point. Ifall of the Tremere can go hang out 
at Club Etrius in one part of the city, they're never going to go 
anywhere else. And if they don't go anywhere else, you lose a 
valuable tool for introducingnew charactersandkickingoff plots. 

When you establish a club that’s a vampiric hangout or 
hunting ground, make sure to give it something of a unique 
identity. People attend particular clubs for particular reasons, 
after all — playlists, DJs, ambiance, decor — and you need to 
create reasons for vampires (the pickiest of the picky consumers, 
especially when you figure in Auspex) to attend. Private space, 
places for unobtrusive feeding, ghoul doormen who let Kindred 
in automatically, aesthetics that are pleasing to Auspex-en 
isons for Kindred to flock to a 
particular nightspot. Without amenities like these, vampires 


hanced senses and so on are all re 


will simply move on to another place that caters to their whims 

On the flip side, lay out how the club deals with the 
Masquerade and breaches thereof. Any place that attracts 
flocks of Kindred on any given night is a magnet for trouble 
Frenzies, fights, accidental killings during feeding and other 
crises will arise, and they'll all need to be dealt with quickly, 
quietly and efficiently. If a club gets a reputation as a trouble 
spot, if patrons disappear or get shot on a regular basis, then the 
cops are going to move in and the lowly mortals who make up 
the place’s real customer base are going to move on. It’s not like 
the Kindred are paying for their drinks, after all. So ponder your 


mythical club's cleanup, cover-up and defenses. Youdon’t want 


Cuoppinc Up tHe Town 
It’s fine to divvy up sections of your city to Kindred left 
and right, but restraint is as important as thoroughness in this 
instance. This isa Camarillacity, afterall. The vampires who 


pull the strings of mortal institutions don’t do so directly; they 
work through mortals to achieve their ends. Furthermore 


vampiric control is always subtle and often imperfect; a 
Ventrue doesn’t casually stroll into the local paper’s city room 
and delete files at random. Instead, he calls the editor of the 
section, who may be a ghoul or may just bea mortal beholden 
tohim, and requests that the offendingstory be killed. He may 
offer recompense in the form of additional ad revenue for that 
section that day, or he may “create” another newsworthy 
incident to fill the space. The desired effect is achieved 
without bloody constraint. 

So remember that when you hand out sections and 
institutions, you're handing out influence, not total and 
direct control. Plan your plots accordingly. 


Tre Cay By Nigat:Buoinc Your Semne 


155 


BAD NEIGHBORHOODS 

It’s easy to dismiss the bad parts of town. It’s simple to 
sketch them simply and use them as convenient feeding 
grounds, nothing more. But it’s not necessarily right to doso. 

Ifyou're goingto take yourstory intothe less savory parts 
of town, show respect for your subject matter. Poverty and 
despair are powerful, dreadful things, and cavalierly using 
them as justifications for cheap feeds sends the wrong mes- 
sage. If a neighborhood goes to hell, there’s a reason — plant 
closings, neglect or malice from city government, infestation 
and there are real human beingsaffected by that 
decline. Even if your Kindred plumb the worst depths of your 


by dealers 
city, remember to ascribe some basic human dignity 


to be caught unprepared when the local mob of Brujah decides 
to tear the club’s mysterious owner a new one. 
While the clubs are the heart of your city’s Rack, they're not 


theentire thing. Is your city’s prime hunting ground a club district, 


or does it tend more toward shopping and restaurants? Outlining 


the Rack also lays out what sort of prey vampires are likely to find 


there. A ritzier, shopping-based Rack is likely tohave more middle- 
and upper-class patrons, and these people are more likely to be 
it being attacked. A club-based 


Rack, however, has younger and possibly inebriated or otherwise 


taken seriously when they talk abc 


chemically altered patrons, and such mortals don’t necessarily 


carry great credibility. Pick your spots and expand upon them 


Clubs and the Rack aren't the only places that Kindred 


spend their time. Elysium isalso important toestablish. For more 


XX 


information on settii 


up Elysiums in your city, see pa 


Wuere Are tHe Havens? 

At this point in the process, you've laid out where the 
Kindred go to “work” and where they go to eat and play 
What's left is where they live. In other words, it’s time to 
figure out whose havens are where 

Many Kindred, particularly experienced, wealthy and para 
noid ones, have multiple havens. As a result, trying to pinpoint 
where each haven of every vampire in your city might be isa fine 
way todrive yourself mad. Instead, decide where the main havens 
ofa) the important Kindred, and b) the vampires your characters 
are likely to bump into might be. You might also want to sketch 
outthe detailsand defenses ofhavensthat yourplayers' coterie are 
likely to visit or invade. If the plots that you're cooking up make 

ne 


it look likely that the characters are going to have to go beard 


Malkavian elder in his den, it only makes sense to know ahead of 


time what they're going to have to get past in order to get there 

Even if you don’t pick street addresses and apartment 
numbers for the havens you're designing, you should at least 
know what general neighborhoods they're in, and why they're 
there. Having a haven next door can do strange things to a 
community — police patrols might drop asa result, leading to 
higher crime, or perhaps the Kindred sees fit to ghoul a few of 


his neighbors as a precaution 


How Do You Get THER 

An overlooked aspect of a city’s geography involves 
access. How do mortals get in and out — is there busy airport 
(and which airlines use it as a hub)? What about train lines, 
buses or major highways? If there’s only one main road 
leading into or out of town, a single traffic accident at a 
strategic time can wreak havoc on Kindred travel plans. A 
massive snarl an hour before sunrise can trap a vampire far 
from his haven with nowhere to hide. Asan extension of this, 
it makes sense to take a quick look at the city’s traffic maps. 
Main streets, parkways, traffic bottlenecks and construction 
projects are all good to know about, particularly if you 
anticipate high-speed chases in your chronicle. 

Justas importantisfiguringouthow vampires getsmuggled 
in and out of the city. Kindred travel arrangements can get 
peculiar, and more than one vampire has made a fortune by 
shipping his fellow bloodsuckers like cargo. Ports, air freight 
terminals, railroad freight yards and the like all deserve 
attention as potential points of entry for Kindred. 


Wuere Don’t Tey Go? 

The flip side of picking out where the Kindred of your 
citydo goisdelineating the places where they don’t go. That's 
more difficult than looking at a map, figuring out what the 
quote-unquote “bad neighborhoods” are, and X-ing them off 
your game map. What might be a bad neighborhood to you or 
me isn’t so much of a hassle to an unliving killing machine 
who can shrug off bullets like they're mosquito bites, after all. 

Instead, it takes effort to figure out why a particular part of 
town is inhospitable to Kindred. A tightly knit Catholic neigh- 
borhood might have enough ambient True Faith to keep most 
vampires:ac bey, Parks ‘or béher less heavily. developed epaces 
might have other supernatural inhabitants who aren't vampire- 
friendly. Or maybe there are just vampiric rivalries — one line 
of Brujah has its havens firmly settled in the neighborhoods in 


Tue Burns 

Your city is not just the city itself. There’s the entire 
metropolitan area to consider. Which neighborhoods do 
the wealthy suburban squires retreat to at the end of the 
day, and can the Kindred get there without being am- 
bushed by Lupines along the way? Gated communities can 
serve as private hunting preserves, or they can be death- 
traps. It’s all a matter of perspective. 

Fortunately orunfortunately, the Kindred don’tmuch like 
the suburbs. There’s a little too much open space, there aren't 
enough places to hide, and the residentsstill sometimes call the 
cops when they hearscreaming coming from neighbors’ houses 
late at night. An active neighborhood watch association is 
surprisingly good at picking up breaches in the Masquerade. 

A few Kindred do like to have suburban havens, far 
from the hustle, bustle and armed robbery of the city 
streets, but they’re in a distinct minority. For even the 
ever-wary Kindred, there’s safety in numbers. 


the southern part of the city, while their rivals are established 
to the west, and never the twain shall meet. Take the time to 
figure out which parts of your city aren’t safe for any vampires 
(and why), which onesaren’tsafe for your important Storyteller 
charactersand which onesaren’tsafe for the players’ characters. 


Wuat Does tHe PLace LOOK Line? 

While not strictly a question of geography, the matter of 
the physical appearance of your city, right down to its base 
architectural style, should be addressed at some point. A city’s 
façade affects the mood it establishes — a skyline of mirrored 
glass and steel creates a different mood than does one of stately 
turn-of-the-century skyscrapers encrusted with gargoyles, or 
one marked by medieval or even Roman ruins. A city wherein 
every building and terrace is marked by beetling, glowering 
statuary generatesan oppressive, paranoiac feel, while the ultra- 
modem look of glass, chromeandsteel makesforadepersonalized, 
alienated setting. Furthermore, no city’s decor is uniform; the 
breakdowns run neighborhood by neighborhood, with dilapi- 
dated row homes cheek-by-jowl with freshly yuppified condos 
and trendy shops. Figure out which feel you want to emphasize 
in your game and play that look (and those neighborhoods) up. 
Remember, this is your city, and you don’t have to stick that 
closely to “reality” in matters like this. 

Building style is also a matter that is more important 
than it seems. Vampires are creatures of the side alley and the 
boardroom, and you need to figure out the proportions 
thereof. While it’sall well and good for the characters to want 
to duck down an alley and hide behind a dumpster after 
killing a Ventrue’s prized ghoul, skyscraper districts tend not 
to have too many alleys. Define what the regular features of 
your city’s landscape are. Are there trees planted in front of 
every building, or is there trash in the streets? How about 
alleys — how many, how often, how deep and do they have 
sewer tunnel access for the Nosferatu? Does the city spring for 
bright, white street lamps, or are the roads lit in dingy yellow 
and orange (if they are lit atall)? This sort of thinking extends 
to the human aspects of the landscape as well. Do the cops 
walk their beat on foot, or do they stick to cars and in pairs? 


QuesTIONS OF ELYsIUuM 


Part of what makes a city definitively Camarilla is its 
Elysiums. These places, cultural centers where violence is forbid- 
den against all, rest at the heart of a city’s intellectual unlife. 
Without knowing a city’s Elysiums —where and what and how 
numerous they are — you can’t know acity. Therefore, defining 
your city's Elysiums is a matter of paramount importance. 


Wuere Is Erysium? 

Elysiums are the rocks of a city’s foundations, the safe and 
strong places that remain inviolate even when all around 
them ischaos. Youshould put thoughtand consideration into 
your sefectionsat Elysums, because by selecting Elysium so 
youalléct everything thar happensaround Elystum-as well Te 
may seem obvious just to go ahead and pick your city’s largest 
art museum as Elysium and letting it go at that, but the 


Tre Cay By Nier:Bunoinc Your Senn 


157 


obvious choice isn’t always the best one. Choosing multiple, 
unexpected or just plain strange places to serve as Elysium 
helps give your city an identity rooted in specifics. 

Just the sheer number of places marked Elysium has a 
profound impact on a city’s feel. A city that has but a single 
museum declared Elysium isa very different place from one with 
a half-dozen sites — the latter is clearly a more prosperous and 
peaceful domain, its Kindred have more time for contemplation 
of the arts, there is more culture fostered in the city by mortal and 
immortal alike, and multiple Elysiums offers more opportunities 
forintriguing on safe ground. On the otherhand, the city with but 
a single museum or theater demonstrates that the prince's priori- 
ties lie elsewhere, that the city doesn’t have the resources to 
support multiple Elysiums, and thatthe Kindred of the metropolis 
have other, more pressing concerns than the cultivation of art. 

There are other, more subtle effects on the city to be 
considered as well. For example, the more locales the prince 
recognizes as Elysium, the more bases of power the local harpies 
have. More Elysiums also means fewer prime pieces of downtown 
to be handed out as prize domains to the local Toreador, not to 
mention more places lawbreakers can duck into for s 


nctuary. 

By plotting out how many sites in a city are designated 
Elysium, you can also establish the city's attitude toward 
culture and keeping up the appearance thereof. 


WuatlIs€rysium? 

The places chosen for a city’s Elysiums say a great deal 
about both the city and those who dwell there. The effects of 
labeling a place Elysium are both obvious (here is where the 
vampires can be found) and subtle 
Elysium is liable to enter a precipitous decline). Defining the 
Elysiums of your city, not to mention the effects of your choices, 
makes a tremendous difference in establishing your setting. 

Thestereotypical image of Elysium is that of the art museum 
openafter hours, Kindred strolling to and fro while making snide 
comments and sipping vitae from wine glasses. While that image 
certainly can hold some truth, you should think about whether 
it holds enough truth for your game. Is the art museum your 
Kindred’s Elysium of choice? If so, why — tradition, a specific 
collection of Impressionists or artifacts, fond memories relating 
toa particular piece (“I was in Paris when George painted that one. 
It was the year I finally left my sire’s household and I was looking for 
someone I could sponsor to gain entrance into a certain salon...”) or 
some reason esoteric beyond human understanding? There’s 
certainly nothing wrong with choosing a city’s art museum as 
your core Elysium. After all, it has a variety of exhibits to please 
the eye, plenty of space for intriguing with or avoiding others, 
and a central location —all vital elements to a proper Elysium. 
However, picking the art museum because you think it’s ex- 
pected, and not for the merits that the particular place holds, 
shortchanges your story and your city. 

So if your central Elysium is to be located elsewhere, what 
sort of place should you pick? An opera house or academy of 
music isa superb choice. Most are decorated in a suitably rococo 
style to appease even the most perfectionistic Toreador; many 


a museum not chosen as 


have sweeping lobbies as well as secluded boxes and numerous 
back stairwells, all excellent places to conduct vampiric busi- 
ness or to hold court. Furthermore, there's always the prospect 
of intrigues conducted subtly, through hand gestures, passed 
notes and urgent whispers while the orchestra plays madly and 
the opera’s action crashes to a climax onstage. 

Beyond libraries and music halls, there are other potential 
choices to consider. Theaters, particularly ones with some sort 
of history to them, work well. Many cities have central libraries 
of renown that can also offer the amenities essential to an 
Elysium, ranging from exhibits to statuary to suitably ornate 
decoration. Art galleries offer many of the same amenities of 
museums, but in more intimate surroundings. European cities 
may have Roman amphitheaters or other landmarks still in 
functioning condition. Manors and castles turned into muse- 
ums and left behind by their original residents often fit the bill 
— particularly if the city’s Kindred visited those houses centu- 
ries earlier and seek comfortable surroundings. 


The trick when selecting a site for a central Elysium is to 
make sure it offers enough — enough space, enough culture, 
enough to amuse visitors and enough respect to keep Kindred 
fromignoringtheplace’sstatus,Justlabelingsomething" Elysium” 
is no guarantee that the name will stick — good luck enforcing 
Elysium status for a comedy club or even for an experimental 
theater that’sa little too experimental for the local harpies' taste. 


That being said, you certainly don’t have to restrict 
yourself to just one Elysium. Ifa city has several sites worthy 
of the title, or the prince simply wants to show off how 
cultured and sophisticated he might be, any number of locales 
can end up as an Elysium. What matters is that you know 
which Elysium is the main one 
gather and where the prince receives petitioners. You also 
might want to consider whether the prime Elysium rotates its 
location, or what is happening at the other sites on the nights 
when the central Elysium is dull and quiet. 


the one where the harpies 


Ir Can’ RAIN ALL THE DAMN TIME 

While it may seem very moody and gothic to have your 
chronicle constantly backlit by jagged forks of lightning, it’s 
not always necessary. If nothing else, the constant rain 
would flood out the Nosferatu and produce all sorts of 
interesting rumblings in the city’s power structure. Use 
symbology like lightning to your advantage, which is to say 
sparingly and only at appropriate moments. 

Your city’s weather and climate can help your stories 
along. Unnatural hot streaks can make mortal and immortal 
alike irritable and prone to violence. Blizzards and cold snaps 
can seal mortals in their homes, leaving slim pickings for 
Kindred on the streets. Droughts can lead to fires, and toslow 
or inadequate responses from city fire departments. Heavy 
rains and flooding might do unpleasant things to Kindred 
with subterranean havens. And a city with clear night skies 
might prove a hazard to stargazing Toreador, who stand, 
enraptured, staring in awe at the beauty of the heavens. 


Trt GUIDE TO THE CAMARILA 


158 


FINISHING ToucHesS 

Once you have the where and the what (not to mention 
the why) of your Elysiums set up, there are a few other 
questions that need answering. 

© What sort of security is there? Does the prince rely on 
the tradition of Elysium to protect the site, or are there armed 
guards? What about supernatural protections? 

© Who benefits from having this place as Elysium? Did 
a vampire suggest this site to His Majesty? If so, what was her 
reward? What about those museums and theaters snubbed — 
what's happening to them, and who’s suffering as a result? 

© What can you do with this place? Is the building 
hosting Elysium big enough for audiences and mass meetings? 
What sort of space does it offer for plotting? If there are 
dangers, what are they? 

© What is the local attitude toward Elysium? Does the 
prince simply tolerate it as a necessary evil, or does he 
embrace the notion? What about his subordinates, and what 


ire they willing to do to push their agendas about the place? 


QUESTIONS 
OF HISTORICAL IMpORT 


It is no understatement to say that many Kindred dwell 
exclusively in the past, to the point where they refuse to acknowl 
edge the veryexistenceofthepresent. History, then, isof paramount 
importance to these creatures, and that means that history should 
mattertoyournewly hatched cityaswell. By establishing yourcity’s 
history —and the rolethe local Kindred played in creatingit —you 
lay the groundwork for the vampiric rivalries and vendettas of the 
present. Without knowing where your Kindred have been, you 


can’t get a handle on where they're going. 


So WHat Happenep ? 


The first step in establishing a city's history in the World 


of Darkness is to learn the city's real history. (Of course, if 
you're creating a city from whole cloth, it’s up to you to make 
up the mortal history as well.) Once you have that under your 
belt, you can start looking for highlights, incidents of impor: 
tance in the city’s story that look as if they might have been 
“adjusted” by outside influences. Riots, battles, mysterious 
murder sprees and other violent moments are a great place to 
start, bur there are other options as well. What about notable 
elections, massive donations of land to the city, building 
projects and the like? Just because the Kindred revel in blood 
doesn’t mean that all their works are immediately soaked in it. 

Gaining familiarity with a city's history isn’t the same thing 
as becoming a world-renowned expert on it. Don’t feel you have 
to know everything about a city, from the political affiliation of 
its 14th mayor to the names of its turn-of-the-century semipro 
athleticteams, to havea handle onacity’spast. Don'tworry about 
not knowing everything. Just make sure you've learned enough 
that you can ground the current events you're creating in some 
sort of historical context. If your city has a history of gangland 


violence, you can take that trend and use it to inform what you're 


Tre Coy By Nieat:Bunoinc Your Semne 
159 


doingnow. Perhaps two of the feuding gangsters were Embrace 


and carry on their deadly rivalry from beyond the grave. Or maybe 
the course of the fighting took out one Kindred’s entire ghoul 
support network, leading to her downfall. Now, decades later, 
she’s looking to extract payback from the vampires who sup- 
ported the killers. Then again, the entire thing may have been 
sparked by the maneuvering of some Kindred using mortal pawns 
to undercut the other, and the conflict is simply awaiting the 
appropriate time to renew itself, In all three cases, what has beer 
once given a vampiric twist, now fulfills two functions. It fits 
nicely into the city’s supernatural history, and it sets up future 
plots that are well-grounded in the “historical” past 


How Mucu INeLuence? 

The vampiric influence on human history in the World of 
Darkness has consistently been overstated, both by the vampires 
themselvesand by outside observers (i.e. folks reading and playing 
thegame). History happens, driven by the great massof humanity 
Vampires, with very few exceptions, cannot alter that flow of 
events; they can merely hope to divert it, to forestall or trigger 
events or to ride the crest of the wave to a profitable result. There 
are simply too many humans with too much historical momen 
tum for the Kindred to muck about with things willy-nilly 

That being said, in order to see what role vampires have 
historically played in your city, you have to figure out how 
much of that city’s history they were behind — and why. It 
does no good to say that vampires were behind a particularly 
bloody strike in the 1920s unless you can figure out why 
who benefited from the strike and the subsequent brutal 
strikebreaking? Why would they instigate such events? What 
did they stand to gain? Vampires, like anyone else, have 
motivations for doing things. It doesn’t matter if those thing 
are as insignificant as choosing a dress or as momentous as 
instigating an assassination — there has to be a reason for 
something being done. Ascribing actions to the Kindred 
without ascribing motives makes those actions nonsensical 
Bear in mind that the vampire behind the scenes may not 
have had good or intelligent reasons for what he did, but as 
long as there was a reason that made sense to him, the whole 


sequence of events becomes much more believable 


BeHIND CLOSED Doors 

You should think beyond the public spaces when 
creating your Elysium. There’s more to a museum than 
galleries — there are restoration facilities, storage and ware- 
house spaces, offices and more far from the public eye. 
Similarly, an academy of music offers rehearsal spaces 
costume chambers, dressing rooms, ticket offices and the 
like. Libraries have document chambers, microfiche storage 
rooms, preservation facilities, closed stacks, rare book collec- 
tion rooms and other places that aren’t necessarily obvious, 
but which can provide a wealth of plot hooks. Once you 
designate a site Elysium, you might as well get as much out 
of your Elysiumas you can. That means using every available 
inch of the place, and not ignoring any of it. 


The GUIDE TO THE CAMA 
160 


Wuat HavetHe Vampires Done? 

Though vampires exist at a slower pace than mortals do, 
theyre not alvays idle orteonpon’ Over thewennmnes aceven 
millet yonur ey hasevisted; there has beenashadow history 
of vampiric doings running parallel to the record of mortal 
events. Knowing what the human beings were doing for all 
those years is only half the story; you have to know what the 
Kindked wecedotng awell 

Note that your vampiric history should vice simply be a 
matter of “here’s when the vampires fought, and here’s how 
they covered it up.” Instead, keep track of who arrived when, 
and where they came from. Establish Embrace dates for your 
major characters, not to mention the stories behind their 
Embraces. Which vampires died along the way, how did they 
die, and what happened as a result? Often it makes sense to 
establish the vampiric power dynamics of today and then 
work backward to see how they got that way. 

Just remember that your shadow history has to be masked 
by the real one. A hundred years of vampiric warfare might 
make for excellent backstory, but if it coincides with a century 
of peace and prosperity in the real world, the incongruity will 
serain:players’ credulity: 


WARS 

One of the most devastating things thatcan hitacity is the 
tide of war. As bloody and brutal as warfare has been in the real 
world, the influence of supernatural monsters in the World of 
Darkness might even make it worse. What is certain, however, 
is that warfare touches the unliving population ofa city as well 
asthe living one, and that ignoring the effect of warfare on your 
city’s vampires can be a serious mistake. 

Mortal Wars 

Most of the cities on the planet have been involved in 
some sort of warfare, and the effects of that sort of action on the 
local Kindred population need to be examined carefully. It’s a 
mistake to worry about which vampires were behind which side. 
Rather, think about how war affected your city directly. Was it 
burned to the ground, like Dresden or Moscow? If it was, how 
much of the vampiric population was caught in the firestorm? 
Did enemy troops occupy it, making it harder for Kindred to 
feed, or did total chaos reign? How about the reconstruction of 


NIGHTSOFOLD 

While cities in the Western Hemisphere are younger 
than the Camarilla, much of the rest of the world boasts 
metropoli that predate the sect by centuries or millennia. For 
places like Athens, Cairo, Jerusalem and soon, the reasons the 
city went down the Camarilla path need to be laid out clearly. 
The vampires who inhabit these places, many of whom 
predate the sect as well, also need to establish why they chose 
the Camarilla. If there was a sectarian struggle in your city’s 
past, map it out and decide why things went the way they did. 

It might even be worth wondering if someone out 
there wants a rematch. 


the urban area afterward — which vampires had a hand in 
rebuilding the city to their liking? Mortal wars provide a 
storytelling opportunity to change the course of your city’s 
shadow history; take advantage of it if you can. 

Immortal Wars 

Vampires wage war as well, thought not on the direct scale 
that mortals do. Even if two of the most powerful vampires ina 
given city decide to go at it, you're not going to see tens of 
thousands of Kindred lined up in ranks, waiting for the order to 
charge. Instead, war between vampires is a more subtle thing, 
played out by mortal pawns and vampiric catspaws. Gang wars, 
political upheavals, riots, overthrows of governments and the 
like all provide excellent cover for deadly struggles between 
Kindred. The overlaying violence serves to mask the more 
vicious tactics that each feuding vampire puts into play. 

If you decide that two or more Kindred went to war in your 
city’s past, it makes sense to look for upheaval in the mortal 
world that could have provided camouflage for the deadly 
struggle. If you can find an instance in which the unruly mortals 
more or less matched the philosophies of the Kindred you 
scripted as going at it, so much the better. Otherwise, think 
about when it makes sense for there to be immortal combat in 
your setting, and pick a moment in history to fit. 

Note: You may want to wait on this particular aspect of 
building your city until after you've filled in the vampiric 
population (see below). 


WHAT ABOUT TIDBITS? 

While it’s not necessary to know absolutely everything 
about your city’s past to run a good chronicle in it, knowing 
the odd bit of historical trivia can certainly serve its purpose. 
Putting factoids from 10 or 12 centuries past into the mouths 
of your older Kindred serves nicely to establish the realism of 
their age. Having a vampire stroll onto the scene and an- 
nounce that he’s three centuries old stretches credulity —the 
moment seems staged, and as a result the character doesn’t 
acquire the respect his age should garner him. But having him 
walk into Elysium, garbed impeccably in the wardrobe of 
yesteryear and dropping conversational tidbits about the 
measures he and a friend had helped institute to control the 
outbreak of yellow fever among the kine back in the 1790s, 
he acquires a bit more of the aroma of historicity. 

In addition, every city’s history is full of bits of just plain 
old-fashioned weirdness — rains of frogs, the odd political 
suicide or socialite disappearance, rich eccentrics building 
strange houses and the like—thatcan fit nicely intoacampaign 
as evidence of vampiric maneuverings gone awry. The rain of 
frogscan be laidat the feet ofan incompetent local Tremere, the 
disappearances and suicides might be the evidence of anything 
from abuses of Dominate to cover-ups for Embraces and so on. 

Also, remember this: Just because a vampire might have 
influenced an event doesn’t mean that things turned out the 
way the Kindred wanted. Vampires screw up, too, and some- 
times to absolutely spectacular effect. 


Tre Cay By Ni@st:Buoinc Your SemnG 


161 


QUESTIONS OF 
PoOpuLATION 


Nocity is suitable fora vampire game without a population 
of vampires. As detailed as your history might be, as fascinating 
as your setting is, without a suitable flock of living dead in place 
to provide allies, enemies, informants and other bodies for your 
players to interact with, your city isn’t complete. You need to 
know who lives in your city, who visits it, where the residents 
are likely to be found and where they stand on a whole host of 
issues. Otherwise, your detailed cityscape is simply so much 
gorgeous scenery. 


WHO Lives THERE? 


The first thing you need to do in creating your city’s 
population is to establish how many vampires the city actually 
supports. A good rule of thumb is one Kindred per 100,000 
mortals, and population statistics are generally pretty easy to 
find. Note that this number can be adjusted up or down, 
depending on the feel you want to establish in your setting. If 
you decide that your city should have a wide-open, sparse feel 
to it, drop the number of Kindred. On the other hand, if you’re 
goingforafeverish, overcrowded ambiance, increase the vampiric 
population. Just be careful not to increase it too much, or else be 
prepared for an in-play culling. 

Once you know how many vampires are in yourcity, think 
about the clan breakdown. As your city is Camarilla, the six 
main clans should easily predominate, with a few straggling 
Gangrel as well. Minor clans, bloodlines, Sabbat invaders and 
soon should make up a tiny fraction of the Kindred population. 


THe DRINCE AND DOpULATION 

In large part, your city’s clan breakdown is determined by 
what clan the prince is. As the prince alone has the right of 
unlimited creation, it only makes sense for her to reinforce her 
position by Embracing enough progeny to protect herself 
properly. Furthermore, the right of creation makes an excellent 
favor to bestow on those to whom the prince owes boons; odds 
are that many Kindred thus gifted are from the prince's clan. 


WHo Mane WHo? 


After you geta rough breakdown of numbers in place, it’s 
time to think about lineages. This step is more important 
than one might think. While the Toreador might have five 
members in your fictional city, how exactly those five are 
related can make a tremendous difference in the clan’s power. 
A clan comprised of one elder with four progeny certainly 
presents a different face to the city than does a “family” of five 
Toreador of successive generation. Mapping out how the 
vampires of a single clan are related, if indeed they are, also 
helps you establish the relative power of the various clans. 

Note: At this point in the process, you should probably 
be giving at least preliminary names to your Kindred. This 


serves as a tremendous aid in keeping the tangled web of 
vampiric relationships straight. 


SiReS AND CHILDER 

As important as knowing who spawned whom is knowing 
how the parties relate afterward. Poor sire-childe relations can 
weaken a clan’s hold on a city; strong ones can unify the clan 
into a nigh-unstoppable force. Also take into consideration 
blood bonds, voluntary and otherwise, and their effects on 
childer’s affection. (Some of those bonds might be fragile or 
broken, which is always good to know.) Finally, it's worth 
thinking about siblings in the blood — multiple childer of the 
same sire — and any rivalries that might exist there. 


THe UNWANTED 

Bear in mind that notevery childe isacknowledged. Caitiff 
aren't part of anyone’s equation, but they do need to be taken 
into account when you're populating your city. How many 
Caitiff there are, who created them, and how likely it is that the 
act will be traced back are all questions to ponder. A Caitiff’s 
quest for her parentage can make for an interesting plot thread, 
especially if the trail leads back to the corridors of Elysium, 
Remember, the creation of a Caitiff is a violation of the 
Traditions and is theoretically punishable by death. Building 
that sort of ticking time bomb into your city’s foundations gives 
you something earthshaking to spring on your players later on. 


THe Lessers 

Vampires aren’t the only ones intimately wound in the 
city’s Camarilla web. There are ghouls to consider as well. 
While a ghoul isn’t necessarily as important a part of the city 
as one of the Kindred (particularly if he’s part of a particular 
vampire’s large stable), it make sense to know where the 
ghoul numbers stack up in your city as well. The more ghouls 
aclan has, the longer its reach in the daylight hours, the more 
eyes it has in place in the city and the more soldiers it can call 
upon in times of crisis. 

If there are particularly prominent ghouls (police offi 
ers, reporters, politicians, etc.) in your city, it often makes 
sense to figure out whom they're beholden to. Mapping the 
web of favors and allegiances down to the mortal — or mostly 
mortal — level goes a long way toward figuring out who's 
inclined to help your players’ characters and who isn’t. 


THe DiIsLOYAL OppositIon 

After the basic framework of the city’s Camarilla population 
is established, then you can start thinking about who doesn’t fit 
in. That designation includes anarchs, members of the unaffili- 
ated clans like the Giovanni, and Sabbat packs and infiltrators. 
Needless to say, you don't want to stock up too heavily on any of 
these, otherwise yourCamarillacity abruptly ceasesto be Camarilla. 

If your city has an anarch population, make a note of how 
many of the anarchs are homegrown (and who their sires are) 
and how many are imported rabble-rousers; a blood hunt 
following an anarch from his home city onto your prince’s turf 
can make foran interestingstory. The independents’ connec- 


The GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


162 


tions and targets in the city need to be delineated; knowing 
which Kindred the lone Setite is dealing with and which ones 
he’s got in his pocket is an important difference. As for the 
Sabbat, knowing where it’s holed up, what it’s after and 
whom it’s targeted or subverted already sets up Sabbat-related 
plotlines down the road 


TRANSIENTS 

If your game is set in a small city, your players’ coterie 
might well be 50% of the vampiric population. Thiscan make 
for short-lived chronicles, with the coterie ganging up on the 
rest of the city’s Kindred and taking them out one by one. 

A possible solution lies in bringing in transients. Think 
about which vampiresare frequent, infrequent or even vaguely 
regular visitors. A pack of roving Gangrel, an archon who has 
acenturies-old romantic entanglement with a member of the 
primogen council or a rabble-rousing anarch who thinks the 
city's an easy mark can all beef up your vampiric numbers 


temporarily without overstuffing the city 


Jos DESCRIPTIONS 


Since your city is held by the Camarilla, it should have a 
prince, sheriff, primogen, harpies and so on. Establishing 
which clans and which characters fill those roles is imperative. 
The entire vampiric population of the city takes its cues, 
positive or negative, from the prince. Start defining the power 


structure at the top, and the rest flows downhill from there. 


Wuo’s THe PRINCE? 
Before you fill out the rest of the Camarilla hierarchy, 


you need to define and establish your prince. Who is she? 
How old is she? What is her clan, and is this her first time 
holding a city? If not, why did she leave her last post — and 
who pushed her out of it? If so, how did she climb to power, 


and who's plotting vengeance as a result? 


THe WEIRD ONES 

It can be tempting to treat your city like a salad bar, 
taking one vampire from each clan or bloodline. One of 
each can't hurt, right? 

Wrong. You only have so much space for vampires in 
this city, and by the time you finish including all of the 
minor and extremely rare lineages, you won’t have room 
for the Brujah, Ventrue, Toreador and others who should 
be making up the meat of your story. In addition, one of 
the defining characteristics of the Gargoyles, Lasombra 
antitribu, etc. is that they are extremely rare. Having one 
in a city is enough toexcite comment and cause specula- 
tion; having several in place for anything short of a 
conclave is beyond the bounds of coincidence. 

It’s wiser and easier to stick to the basics, seasoning 
lightly with one or pethaps two of the rarities. Otherwise, 
you run the risk of having the sideshow become the main 
event, and having your plot crowded right off the stage. 


The Cry By Nia:Buoinc Your 
163 


Answering the above questions gives you a good idea of 
who the prince is, but what remains to be defined is her 
relationship with her city. Is she strict in enforcing her laws, 
and has she added any legislation to the basic Traditions? 
How harsh is she on lawbreakers, and how likely is she to call 
a blood hunt? Which clans beside her own does she favor, and 
which does she frown upon? What are her solutions to the so- 
called anarch problem? Caitiff? The Sabbat? Lupines? Does 
she trust her seneschal, the primogen or any of the other 
officers of the city? Map out the answers to these questions, 
and you draw yourself a political map of your city 


WHo Are THE DRIMOGEN Counci? 

Few princes have absolute power in the strictest sense of 
the term. Mostrule in conjunction with, ifnoton the sufferance 
of, the city’s primogen. Theoretically the primogen council is 
the city's council of elders, a gathering of the oldest and wisest 
representativesof che clans, To no one’ssurprise, trarély works 
out that way. Politics and jealousy make for compromise candi 


dates, and a strong prince can ramrod his candidates through if 


there isn’t anyone else in the city strong enough to stop him 


Ideally, your primogen should comprise the elders of the 
various clans. If you want to deviate from this basic setup, 
think about how and why you want to change things. If you 
primogen is going to consist of five Brujah and a Malkavian, 
you need to have a good reason for setting things up that way 


Your city has to function night to night, after all 


PRIMOGENAND PRINCE 

An importantthing to watch is the relationship between 
your prince and his city’s primogen. In some cities, it is the 
primogen whoselect the prince; in others mattersrun precisely 
opposite. Establish how the balance of power tilts. A city with 
1 primogen council full of yes-vampires who belong to the 
prince’sclan runsa little differently than does one wherein the 
prince is beholden to his “advisors” for everything he has. 


The next order of business is to define how much power 
the primogen council has, and what it’s actually doing as 
opposed to what it’s supposed to be doing. Detailing the 
primogens’ subversions (or lack thereof) matters just as much 
as detailing what the council is supposed to be doing. More 
than one prince has been surprised by a revolt fomented by his 


“advisory” committee 


WHAT Anout tHe OTHER TITLE 

There are titles beyond prince and primogen inacity. While 
it’s important to know at least theoretically who the seneschal is, 
etc,, the priority lies with establishing those Kindred who are 
most likely to interact with your player's coterie. In most cases, 
that means the sheriff, the keeper of Elysium, the harpies and 
possibly the scourge, assuming your city has one. As the charac- 
tersare likely going to interact with any and all of these Kindred, 


those characters need to be drawn up in detail. They're going to 


(0 THE CAMARILLA 


164 


Economy 
If you establish your web of character relationships and 
find that there are two or more that essentially have the same 
allies, enemies and functions, it’s worth your while to com- 
bine the two. You only have so many Kindred to play with, 
and redundancy wastes one of your most valuable resources. 


be on stage a great deal in your campaign, which means that 
they'd better be ready for the spotlight. The politics of these lesser 
figures don’t matter as much as their personalities do. They don’t 
make policy so muchas they enforce it, and asa result figuring out 
who they are and how they're likely to react to the characters is 
of paramount importance. 


Tue UNTITLED 

The ruck and run of the Kindred population of your city is 
left without titles, which isas it should be. However, that doesn’t 
mean that those left out in the cold aren’t thinking about 
climbing the ladder of power. You should think about which of 
your Kindred are actively ambitious (and whose positions they're 
targeting) and which ones are content where they are. Clan ties 
may play into this as well; the Tremere elder may frown on a 
younger clan member's desire to be sheriff, for example, but may 
encourage his protégé to take the role of scourge. 


Po.rtics: WHo Hates WHoM? 


Once you have a rough idea of who the vampires in your 
city are, the last step is to figure out how they all fit together. 
Establishing friendships, alliances, patronagesand favors owed 
primes future plots based on those vampires’ interactions. 


In a sense, what this part of city creation boils down to is 
writing the personal histories and ambitions of your horde of 
characters. The trick is to make sure that if you've got 30 
Kindred in your city, you don’t have 30 free-floating individu- 
Make.agoal ofhavingeach and every Kindred link toat least 
a good reason fora character to have only 


als. 
three others. If there's 
one connection (say, an illegitimate childe whose existence is 
known only to his sire), that’s fine, but a character who only 
seems to work well with one or two other Kindred doesn’t lend 
himself to enough stories for you to keep him around. Notall of 
the relationships you establish between characters should be 
amicable (conflict is every Storyteller’s friend), but they should 
be real, passionate and vital. Vampires are creatures out of time. 
Their hatreds and rivalries are nurtured over the centuries with 
each insult and dig, every setback and petty triumph. That 
intensity of relationship has to come through when you map out 
how your Kindred feel about one another. Mild dislikes and 
vague affection have no place in the web of vampiric relation- 
ships; such delicate emotions are reserved for mortals. 

Some of the questions you'll probably want to answer at 
this point are: 

Who supports the prince? Who doesn’t, and who's 
willing to do anything about it? 


Who’s been talking to the Sabbat, or other outsiders? 
Conversely, who’s loyal, and to whom? 

Who owes other Kindred favors? The pecking order of 
prestation is important in determining who can lean on whom. 

Who loves whom? Love blossoms even among the 
unliving, but a spurned suitor can take a terrible vengeance. 

Whose politics jibe with whose? Who are the anarchs? 
The traditionalists? The wild cards? Conversely, who’s will- 
ing to kill to buttress his position? 

Who are the diablerists, and who died in that fashion? 
Is anyone looking for vengeance, or even those tell-tale 
streaks in the aura? 

Who is ambitious, and who’sa target for that ambition? 
What Kindred are seeking to climb in the power structure, 
and what are they willing to do to get there? 

These simple questions, and the questions that their 
answers raise, should help you establish a solid framework for 
your city’s Camarilla politics. 


WHERE Do You 
Go From Here? 


By this point, you should know where your city is, what 
it’s like, what it looks like, what's important in it, what 
happened in there, what really happened there, who lives 
there, what they control, whom they like and dislike and 
what they're trying to do about it. While creating every detail 
of a fiction (or even fictionalized) city is the work of many 
lifetimes, by this point you've done enough to have at least a 
workable setting for your chronicle. You've done your prepa- 
ration. Now it’s time to use the conflicts you've set up and the 
history you've established to start telling stories. 


TEMPLATES 


Below are statistics and very basic writeups for arche- 
typal characters whoare likely to be found in a Camarilla city. 
The statistics, descriptions and other traits are only a starting 
point, and you should feel free to modify them as you wish 
when populating your chronicle setting. Bear in mind, how- 
ever, that so-called “stat creep” is one of the most insidious 
enemies a chronicle can have, and that the characters pre- 
sented here are designed with their stats as is for a reason. 


CHARTS 

A tremendous help in clarifying your vampires’ tangled 
relationships is the so-called coterie chart. First, space out 
your major characters’ names ona sheet of paper. Then draw 
arrows between those vampires who interact. Finally, write 
descriptives along those arrows, establishing how each half 
ofthe equation feelsabout the other. You'd beamazed athow 
easy this sort of quick reference makes things. 


Tre Cay By Nigsr:Bunoinc Your Sermnc 


165 


Street CAITIFF 

Background: Seduced and abandoned, a street-level 
Caitiff is a vampire by default. He’s spent his brief time as a 
vampire ducking from the sheriff, the scourge and anyone else 
he imagines is after him. Desperate for an ally but afraid to 
trust anyone, he sleeps where he can, feeds when he can and 
waits for the inevitable end. 

Image: Street chic is the best a Caitiff can hope for — 
shirts, jeans, jacket and boots scrounged from a thrift store — 
or worse. A haggard face and haunted eyes are the hallmarks 
of a lone Caitiff on the streets, and odds are he’s got a visit 
air of nervousness about him. 

Roleplaying Hints: Trust noone, and keep an eye on the 
exits at all times. The whole world is out to get you, and your 
only hope of survival is to keep running. You desperately want 
to find someplace to belong, but no one will have you. So 
instead you run. 


Clan: Caitiff 

Nature: Rebel 

Demeanor: Survivor 

Generation: 13th 

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 


Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2 


Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3 

Talents: Alertness 3, Brawl 2, Dodge 2, Intimidation 1, 
Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 2 

Skills: Drive 2, Firearms 2, Melee 1, Security 2, Stealth 3, 
Survival 2 

Knowledges: Academics 1, Computer 2, Law 1, Medicine 1 
Disciplines: Fortitude 1, Potence 1, Presence 1 
Thaumaturgical Paths: None 


Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 5, Resources 1 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 


Humanity: 


7 
7 


Willpower: 


ANGRY ANARCH 

Background: Embraced without warning and thrust 
into the Camarilla against her will, the anarch bided her time 
until she could escape. Now she’s out on the mean streets 
looking for revenge and blood, working to gather a gang with 
whom she can take down her hated sire and all he stands for 

Image: Radiating tough from head to toe, an anarch’s 
every glance is a challenge. She wears whatever looks good 
and protects her well — biker jackets are a particular favorite, 
as are motorcycle or combat boots. An anarch always goes 
armed — a nice shiny pair of .45s, worn visibly, can prevent 
a lot of arguments. 

Roleplaying Hints: Anywhere you go is your property 
Defend your turf with everything you've 
to spit in authority's eye while you do so. You don’t have a 


got, and make sure 


cause, you've got an agenda, and the difference is important 
You won't die for what you believe in; you're more interested 


in finding a way to survive so you can win. 


Clan: Brujah 

Nature: Rebel 

Demeanor: Bravo 

Generation: 13th 

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3 

Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2 
Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3 

Talents: Alertness 2, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, Expression 2, Intimi- 
dation 3, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 3 


The GUIDE TO THE CAMARILA 


166 


Skills: Animal Ken 1, Drive 3, Firearms 2, Melee 2, Security 


Stealth 2, Survival 2 
Knowledges: Computer 1, Investigation 1, Law 1, Medicine 
1, Politics 1 
Disciplines: Celerity 2, Potence 2, Presence 1 
Thaumaturgical Paths: None 

Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3, Resources 2 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 3, Courage 4 
Humanity: 5 


Willpower: 8 


NEONATE 

Background: Just brought into the world ofthe Camarilla, 
the neonate is still working from a jumble of half-truths, 
myths and misconceptions. He's not quite sure what he’s 
supposed to be doing yet, only that the consequences of 
failure are terrible indeed. Just beginning to understand his 
new status, the neonate is taking the first few steps toward 
coming into his true power 

Image: The neonate dresses much as he did in life; 
conservative suit, power tie, black shoes and a neat mustache 
(though he’s finally abandoned his glasses). He’s just starting 
to realize that he has other options, and is beginning to 
thou 


experiment zh the stereotypical cape and cravat are 


miles beyond what he'd conceive of trying. 


A 


Roleplaying Hints: Lord it over the humans, but 


cower before your sire and his peers. You don’t know 


much, but you know your place on the food chain — and 
it's near the bottom. Search for allies among vampires of 
your and generation, but look over your shoulder for 
your sire’s approval all the while. Flinch from garlic, 
crosses and the but once you 


running water rest 


discover that the legends are only stories, you run the risk 
of getting cocky 

Clan: Ventrue 

Nature: Traditionalist 
Demeanor: Conformist 
Generation: | 2th 

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2 
Appearance 3 

Wits 2 

Talents: Alertness 2, Empathy 1, Intimidation 3, Leadership 
2, Streetwise 1 

Skills: 


Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Computer 2, Finance 3, Inves 


Social: Charisma 3, Manipulatic 


Mental: Perception 2, Intelligence 


Drive 1, Etiquette 2, Firearms 2 
tigation 2, Law 2, Politics 3 
Fortitude 1, Presence 3 


al Paths: 


Disciplines: 
Thaumaturgi 
Backgrounds: Generation 1, Herd 1, Influence 1, Resources 2 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 3, Courage 4 
Willpowe 
Humanit 
Willpowe: 
ANCILLA 

Background: Having dwelt behind the Masquerade for 


a century, the ancilla is comfortable with his e: and 


look 


city’s power structure, st 


ence 
his potential. He advance himself within his home 


ing to carve out a niche and a 


domain. Whip, sheriff, even prince — these are the goals to 
which the ancilla aspires, and he is laying careful plans in 
order to attain them 

Image: Dressed in the style of decades loi 
the ancilla looks as if he has stepped straight from a 


Frank Capra film. In appearance he looks to be a sad 


Tre Coy By Niaat:Buwoin Your Semin 


167 


little man, with a sad little smile and soft hands that 

v't look like they’ve ever seen a day’s hard work. Only 
the ancilla’s eyes cold and hard and predatory 
reveal his true nature 

Roleplaying Hints: Agree with those of higher station 
while exercising your authority over those beneath you. 
Watch for rising stars to befriend, and be careful to disassoc 
ate yourself from those who are out of favor. Keep your eyeon 
your ultimate goal; every move and alliance you make is 
merely a step on the road to power. In the end, everyone and 
everything is expendable to your ambition. 
Clan: Tremere 
Nature: Conniver 
Demeanor: Architect 

neration: 10th 


Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3 


Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2 


Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 4 


Talents: Alertness 3, Brawl 2, Empathy 2, Leadership 2 
Subterfuge 3 

Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Stealth 2 
Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Finance 3, Camarilla Lore 4 
Law 2, Politics 3 

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dominate 3, Thaumaturgy 2 
Weather Control 1 


‘ontacts 4, Generation 3, Herd 2, Influence 2 


Thaumaturgical Paths: Blood 2 
Backgrounds: 
Resources 3, Retainers 3, Camarilla Status 3 
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 5, Courage 3 
Humanity: 5 


Willpower: 5 


HIDDEN Source 

Background: The hidden source sees everything that 
goes on in the city — or at least she talks to people who do 
When it’s information that’s needed, she’s the one everyone 
turns to, or at least everyone who can meet her price. Those 
whom she trusts know how to get in touch with her; everyone 
else just has to hope that, if they need her, they're lucky 
enough to find her 

Image: Average for a Nosferatu, she wears volumi 
nous clothes and a floppy hat to cover up her appearance 
as much as possible. Marked and stained by the sewers, her 
A pity the sa 


garb is practically unidentifiable can’t 


said for her face wrinkled and covered wit 


bald visage is something out of a nig Fortunately 
most of the time the Nosferatu wears visages other th 
her own — Obfuscate has its cosmetic uses as well 
tactical ones 

Roleplaying Hints: Don’t come out of the shadows 
unless you have a deal pending. Trade information for favors 


or more info, but always keep the balance of trade decidedly 


in your favor. Use your appearance asa weapon, to shock and 
confuse vampires who can’t see past a person's looks. Keep a 


very small soft spot for the underdog — you know what it’s 
like to be hated and kicked down. 

Clan: Nosferatu 

Nature: Loner 

Demeanor: Curmudgeon 

Generation: | lth 
Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 2 


Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 0 


Wits 4 


Alertness 3, Brawl 1, Dodge 2, Empathy 


Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 
Talents: Acting 
2, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 1 

Skills: Etiquette 2, Firearms 1, Security 1, Stealth 1 
Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Camarilla Lore 3, Computer 
Finance 2, Investigation 3, Linguistics 2, Politics 1, Sabbat 
Lore 2 
Disciplines: Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 3, Potence 2 
Thaumaturgical Paths: None 
Backgrounds: Generation 2, Contacts 3, Influences 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 3, Courage 
Humanity: ¢ 


Willpower: 5 


COURGE 

Background: His Majesty the prince’s choice to rid the 
streets of annoying anarchs and other rabble, the scourge 
has the power of life and death over unauthorized Kindred. 
Always traveling with backup, he has the prince's mandate 
to enforce at least a few of the Traditions in fatal fashion. 


Hated and feared by those with something to hide (such as 


themselves), the scourge is one of the most despised Kin- 
dred in the city. It’s a good thing for him, then, that he loves 
his work 

Image: The scourge affects a tougher-than-thou image 
— dark sunglasses, black hat, leather duster and shotgun 
for purposes of intimidating idiot neonates and anarchs. 
When he goes to work, he dresses lessstylishly, but with much 


more of an eye toward ease of movement. At any given time, 


the scourge has at least one ghoul or subordinate backing him 


y 


up, not to mention a small arsenal secreted somewhere on his 
person. 

Roleplaying Hints: Judge each target and treat him 
accordingly. Have no compunctions about lying, cheating, 
stealing or terrorizing to get what you want and you 
honestly do enjoy putting those pain-in-the-ass anarchs out 
of their misery 
Clan: Gangrel 
Nature: Director 
Demeanor: Bravo 
Generation: 10th 
Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3 
Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 3, Appearance 1 
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 3 
Talent: 
dation 3, Streetwise 2 
Skills: Drive 2, Firearms 4, Melee 2 
Knowledges: Camarilla Lore 3, Investigation 2, Sabbat Lore 3 


Alertness 4, Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, Intimi- 


Security 1, Survival 2 


Disciplines: Animalism 2, Celerity 1, Fortitude 3, Protean 2 


Thaumaturgical Paths: None 


Backgrounds: Camarilla Status 2, Generation 3 


Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 4, Courage 5 
Humanity: 5 
Willpower: 7 


Lovat GHOUL 

Background: Service, loyal service, is all that the ghoul 
knows now. By day he still holds his day job, but the charade 
of office and bureaucracy wears thinner every day. Night, 
when it’s time to serve the master’s wishes with his meager 
skills — that’s when the ghoul feels alive. He’ll do anything 
to make his regnant happy. Anything 

Image: A slightly disheveled businessman, the loyal 
ghoul is vaguely attractive, in a fleshy, middle-aged sort of 
way. His suit isa few years out of fashion, his glasses a bit thick 
and his hairline receding, but he radiates an air of compe- 
tence. He carries a pistol, which he of course has no idea of 
how to use. 


Roleplaying Hints: You know your chosen field very, 
very well, and have no trouble slapping down anyone who 
questions your expertise. Well, anyone except your regnant, 
the one whose blood is so very, very sweet. For him you'll 
kill without hesitation, steal without a second thought and 
lie in a heartbeat. Someday, if you're very, very good, he 
might make you a vampire as well, but in the meantime 
you're content to do what you can to make him happy and 
protect him. 

Clan: N/A 

Nature: Masochist 
Demeanor: Conformer 
N/A 


Physical: Strength 


Generation 


Dexterity 3, Stamina 1 


Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2 


Tre Coy By Nicet:Butoinc Your Semng 


169 


Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 3 
Talents: Alertness 2, Intimidation 3, Leadership 3 
Skills: Drive 
Knowledge: 
Law 3, Linguistics 2, Politics 3 


, Etiquette 3, Security 1 


Jamarilla Lore 3, Finance 3, Investigation 2, 


Disciplin 
Thaumaturgical Paths 


Auspex 1, Celerity 1 
None 
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3, Influence 1, Resources 2 


Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 3 


Willpower: 5 


SHERIFF 

Background: Every anarch’s nightmare and every 
primogen’s whipping boy, the sheriff is responsible for enfore- 
ing the laws of the city. He does this with an iron hand inside 
a velvet glove that’s showing a lot of wear — anarchs and 
troublemakers understand only one thing these nights, and 
that’s force. 


Image: The sheriff isa looming, hulking presence — six 


and-a-half feet of muscle and mean. While he can dress up for 


Elysium or audiences with the prince, the sheriff's scarred and 
ugly mug is more at home in a Kevlar-and-denim ensemble 
A shotgun is his weapon of choice; it’s got more stopping 
power than any mere machine gun, and it’s great for Kindred 
crowd control 


Roleplaying Hints: Play stupid and let the anarchs get 
overconfident. There’s no sense in showing them that you've 
outsmarted them until it’s time for the game to end. Insults 
roll right off you; you do your job and you do it well, and the 
whining from those vampiric brats is proof. Uphold the city's 


law to the letter, and add a few codicils that you think are 
worthwhile 

Clan: Brujah 

Nature: Judge 

Demeanor: Monster 

Generation: 9th 

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5 

Social: CI 
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 5 

Talents: Alertness 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, Intimidation 4, 
Leadership 3 

Skills: Animal Ken 1, Drive 3, Firearms 4, Melee 2, Security 
3, Stealth 1, Survival 2 

Knowledges: Camarilla Lore 4, Politics 2, Sabbat Lore 3 
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 4, Fortitude 3, Potence 4, 


arisma 2, Manipulation 5, Appearance 1 


Presence 4 

Thaumaturgical Paths: None 
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Camarilla $ 
Herd 3, Resources 2 

Virtues 
Humanity 
Willpower: 8 


atus 3, Generation 4, 


Sonscience 2, Self-Control 5, Courage 4 


TREMERE INTERROGATOR 

Background: The Tremere interrogator serves both 
her clan and her city, though the former takes prece- 
Through a combination of 


dence at all times. 


thaumaturgical expertise and a detailed understanding 
of pain and its applications, she makes sure that those 
whom fate delivers to her unveil all of their secrets. Not 
everyone has access to her talents, but those who do find 
her invaluable. 

Image: Thoroughly modern in her appearance, the 
interrogator prefers severe business suits, and lab coats for 
when she gets down to work. Her face is all angles and edges, 
giving her a raptorlike visage. Her fingers, on the other hand, 
are slender and graceful, and she always wears black leather 
gloves to protect them. 

Roleplaying Hints: You have many interests and tal- 
ents, but your work supersedes them all. In conversation, 
you're the one who asks the questions — long-winded stories 
bore you, and you prefer to get straight to the point. You're 
hard to like, but easy to work with, at least from the outside. 
Your patients probably find you less charming 
Clan: Tremere 
Nature: Autocrat 
Demeanor: Perfectionist 
Generation: 11th 
Ph 


Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2 


ysical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3 


The GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


170 


Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 3 
Talents: Acting Alertness 3, Empathy 3, Intimidation 3, 
Leadership 

Skills: Etiquette 


Knowledges: F 


2, Firearms 1, Music 1, Repair 1 
ureaucracy 3, Camarilla Lore 4, Computer 
Finance 2, Investigation 4, Law 3, Politics 3, Sabbat Lore 3 
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dominate 3, Fortitude 2, Presence 2 
Thaumaturgy 3 

cal Paths: The Lure of Flames 3, Hands of 
Blood 1 

Backgrounds: Camarilla Status 3, Contacts 4, Generation 2 
Herd 2 


Thaumatu 


Destruction 2 


Influence 1, Resources 2, Retainers 2 


Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 5, Courage 3 
Humanity: 4 


Willpower: € 
Harpy 


Background: The harpy is the arbiter of style and status 
in the city. With a flock of her peers, she peers out from 
Elysium to bestow good fortune or venomous malice with but 


1 word. Everyone courts her favor — especially those who 

Jespise her 
Image: A vision of supernatural and predatory loveli 

ness, the harpy always makesa statement with her appearance 

Gowns from centuries past, exquisitely tailored to play up her 

beauty, are standard apparel for her when she wants tobe seen 
and she is never seen when she does not want to be 


Roleplaying Hints: No one is your equal. You are 


jury and social executioner, and anyone who dares 


or insult you has committed an unpardonable 


ond well to flattery if it’s done we but 


never, ever let yourself grow predictable. You hold the 
reputation of everyone in the city in your hands, and you 
know it 


Clan: Toreador 
Nature: Gallant 

Demeanor: Celebrant 

Generation: 9th 

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3 
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4 
Wits 3 


Alertness 3, Empathy 3, Intimidation 4 


Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, 
Talents: Acting 3. 
Leadership 3, Subterfuge 3 
Skills: Etiquette 3, Firearms 1, Music 3 
Knowledges: Camarilla Lore 3, Linguistics 3, Occult 
Politics 3 
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 3, Presence 3 
Thaumaturgical Paths: None 
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Camarilla Status 3, Contacts 3, Fame 
2, Generations 4, Influence 2 
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 5, Courage 4 
Humanity: 4 
Willpower: 8 
Heeper of ELYSIUM 

Background: The unliving can appreciate grace, beauty 


and art far better than can the living, who have buta few brief 


decades to contemplate it. The keeper of Elysium preserves 


that for the Kindred, enforcing the laws of Elysium and 
carefully gathering the artifacts of culture and inspiration for 


the vampires of the city’s pleasure 


Image: The keeper of Elysium dresses soberly, but in 
expensive clothing than can come from any era of human 
history, depending on her whim. Her demeanor is sober 
and reserved, but she sees everything that goes on in her 
domain, and deals harshly with those who would violate 
Elysium’s sanctity. 
Roleplaying Hints: Elysium is your garden. Share 


your treasures with those who show a genuine interest 


and feed the frauds to the harpies. The peace and tradi- 
tion of Elysium are paramount to you, and you deal 
harshly with any violators. You can call on the might of 
the entire city to do so, and have resorted to that tactic 


q 
para 


on multiple occasions. 


Clan: Toreador 
Natur: 


Demeanor: Pedagogue 


Celebrant 

Generation: 9th 

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3 
Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 
Mental: F 
Talents: Alertness 3, Empathy 2 

Skills: Etiquette 3, Firearms 1, Melee 1, Music 3, Security 2 
Knowledges: Camarilla Lore 2, Computer 1, Finance 3, Law 
3, Linguistics 4, Politics 2, Science 1 


erception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 4 


Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 1, Presence 4 


Thaumaturgical Paths: None 

Backgrounds: Camarilla Status 1, Generation 4, Herd 1, 
Influence 2, Resources 3 

V 


Humanity: 6 


rtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 4, Courage 2 


Willpower: 5 


Tue Lovar Opposition (DriMocen) 

Background: It has taken centuries, but the primogen 
has finally clawed her way to the top of the local branch of 
her clan. Now she speaks for all the Malkavians in her city, 
andher word carries a great deal af weight onthe primogen 
council. She doesn’ agree with the-current prince on, 
well, on much of anything, but isn’t ready to move against 
him — yet. In the meantime, she moves in council to 
thwart his aims, never crossing the irrevocable boundary 
of open rebellion 

Imaget The Malkavian primogen dresses as'aprim and 
proper woman of the mid-1800s, modestly garbed and with 
downcast countenance. She has always appeared this way, so 
far as anyone in the city remembers. Perhaps she always will 

Roleplaying Hints: You did not achieve your age or 
position by wandering around in bunnyslippers and pajamas 
Your madness is a cold and terrifying thing, twining perfectly 
around your ambition to help you achieve the bloody heights 
of the primogenship. You are not teady to move openly 
against the prince, but in the meanwhile you enjoy nothing 
more than thwarting his will. 


Clan: Malkavian 

Nature: Fanatic 

Demeanor: Penitent 

Generation: 8th 

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 5, Stamina 3 

Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4 
Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 4 

Talents: Alertness 4, Dodge 3, Empathy 3, Intimidation 3, 
Leadership 4, Streetwise 2 

Skills: Animal Ken 2, Etiquette 4, Firearms 
Stealth 3 


2 


Music 3, 


Tht GUIDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


In 


Knowledges: Bureaucracy 4, Camarilla Lore 4, Investigation 
3, Law 3, Linguistics 1, Medicine 2, Politics 3 
Discipline: 


Protean 3 


Auspex 4, Celerity 3, Dominate 5, Obfuscate 4, 


al Paths: None 
Backgrounds: Camarilla Status 4, Contacts 5, Herd 3, Gen- 
eration 5 


Thaumaturgi 


Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 5 
Humanity: 3 
Willpower: 8 


SENESCHAL 

Background: The prince may rule the city, but the 
seneschal is the one who keeps it running from night tonight 
He who would see the prince must first convince the sen- 
eschal of the urgency of his business; the seneschal is the 
keeper of the keys to the prince’s presence. Publicly subservi- 
ent but never craven, he controls far more of the city than 
even his master suspects. 

Image: Tall, gray-haired and impeccably groomed, the 
seneschal is the very picture of gentility. His suit is black and 
immaculate, his cane silver-handled and his manner pre- 
cisely polite 

Roleplaying Hints: You know where everyone stands in 
the city, and where all of the bodies are buried as well. Always 
be polite, but leave no doubt as to who really runs the city 
You have the prince's trust and his permission to use his 


authority; use both wisely and make sure not to abuse either. 


Cla 


Nature: Director 


/entrue 


Demeanor: Conformist 
Generation: 10th 


Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3 


The Cay By Nicet:Buvoinc Your 


173 


Charisma 3, Manipulation 5, Appearance 2 
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4, Wits 4 
Talents: Acting 1, Alertness 4, Brawl 2, Dodge 4, Empathy 
3, Intimidation 4, Leadership 4, Subterfuge 4 
Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 4, Firearms 4, Music 2 
Stealth 4 
Knowledges: Bureaucracy 4, Camarilla Lore 4, Finance 4, 
Investigation 4, Law 4, Linguistics 1, Occult 2 


Security 4, 


Politics 3, 
Sabbat Lore 3 

Disciplines: Auspex 4, Celerity 4, Dominate 4, Fortitude 3, 
Obfuscate 2, Presence 4, Protean 3 

al Paths: None 

Backgrounds: Allies 3, Camarilla Status 4, Contacts 3, 
Generation 2, Herd 3, Influence 3, Mentor 4, Resources 3, 
Retainers 3 


Thaumaturgi 


Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 5, Courage 4 
Humanity: 5 


Willpower: 9 
Prince 

Background: The prince has been a part of the city for 
centuries, even though he has only been prince for a bare 
handful of decades. He has spent his entire unlife here 
climbing from the ranks of the swarming neonates, and now 
he holds the entire city in his grip. Within his domain, his is 
the power of life and death, of creation and destruction, and 


he uses that power as he pleases. 


Image: The prince cuts a terrifying figure. He prefers 
hand-tailored suits of the latest fashion, cut to accentuate 
his looming figure. His hair is 


cut short in imitation, perhaps, 
of the style of his living days, and he rarely smiles. His eyes 
are a steely but deceptively mild blue, and few can meet his 


gaze for long. 


Roleplaying Hints: Youare the prince. Your word is law 
Brook as little opposition as possible. While the primogen 
and others must be respected, you make the final decisions 
and you make them stick. If anyone argues, you have the 
option of calling the blood hunt — and you never let your 
enemies forget it 

Clan: Ventrue 

Nature: Autocrat 

Demeanor: Visionary 

Generation: 8th 

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4 

Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4 


Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 5, Wits 5 


Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 4, 


Intimidation 4, Leadership 5, Subterfuge 3 
Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Melee 3, Stealth 2 
Knowledges: Camarilla Lore 4, Finance 3, Law 5, Linguistics 
2, Politics 4, Sabbat Lore 3 

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 4, Dominate 5, Fortitude 3 
Presence 4, Protean 4 

Thaumaturgical Paths: None 

Allies 3, ¢ 
Generation 5, Herd 4, Influence 4, Resources 4 


Backgrounds: amarilla Status 5, Contacts 5 
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 5, Courage 5 
Humanity: 4 


Willpower: 9 


ROVING ARCHON 

Background: It's been a half-century or more since the 
roving archon had a home city. Since then, she’s been in the 
employ of a justicar, traveling from city to city to investigate 
whatever her superior tells her to. Her presence is always 
accompanied by fear, for an archon is both a power in herown 
right and a potential harbinger of a justicar’s fatal attentions. 

Image: Dressed for travel, the archon certainly looks 
unimpressive. Her sandy-colored hair is cut raggedly short, 
and her clothing is drab khakis that have seen too many 
miles. She carries a single gun, loaded with silver bullets, for 
safety between the cities, but she never uses it on Kindred 
After all, she doesn’t need to. 

Rolep! 


Your mission is to discover whether what they're hiding 


ying Hints: Everyone has something to hide 


actually matters. You have a low bullshit tolerance and a 


short fuse — you've seen every scam and every ruse before, 
and they're not going to start working now. If you see a 


problem, you are more than capable of dealing with 


yourself. Call for backup only if things are about to go 
completely to hell; otherwise you're utterly self-reliant. 
Clan: Toreador 

Nature: Judge 


174 


Demeanor: Martyr 

Generation: 9th 

Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 5, Stamina 5 

Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 2 
Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4, Wits 4 

Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 4, Brawl 5, Dodge 4, Empathy 
2, Intimidation 4, Streetwise 4, Subterfuge 4 


Skills: Drive 2, Firearms 4, Melee 2, Repair 3, Security 3, 
Stealth 4, Survival 3 


Knowledges: Camarilla Lore 
Medicine 3, Politics 3, Sabbat 


Disciplines 


4, Investigation 5, Law 3, 
Lore 4 

Auspex 3, Celerity 4, Fortitude 3, Obfuscate 3, 
Presence 3 

Thaumaturgical Paths: None 

Backgrounds: Camarilla Status 3, Contacts 3, Generation 4, 
Resources 2 

Virtu 
Humanity: 5 
Willpower: 10 


Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 5 


JUSTICAR 

Background: Elected by the Camarilla’s Inner Council, 
the justicar has the power to bring even a rogue prince toheel 
Invested with the authority to strip a prince of his authority 


or destroy an entire generation of Kindred, the justicar is the 


Camarilla’s court of last resort. When the justicar arrives in 


town, it’s already too late — all hell has broken loose and it’s 


time for the cleanup to commence. 


E TO THE CAMARILLA 


Image: The justicar is well over six feet tall and carries the 
weight of centuries with him. He dresses with the times, but is 
most comfortable in the tunic and palla of his breathing days 
centuriesago. When in public, however, the justicar dresses for 
effect, dominating any room he is in with his presence 
Rolepla Hints: 


Camarilla’s business 


ying You are all business — the 


and woe betide anyone who tries to 


stop you. You have no compunctions about using any and all 
of your powers (legal, supernatural or physical) to do what 
needs be done. You only deal with problems of an 
earthshattering nature, so whatever has drawn you to the 
city is serious indeed. 


Clan: 
Natur. 


Aalkavian 
Jompetitor 
Demeanor: Pedagogue 
Generation: 6th 
Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 5, Stamina 5 
Social: Charisma 6, Manipulation 7, Appearance 3 


Mental: Perception 6, Intelligence 4, Wits 6 


Talents: Alertness 5, Athletics 4, Brawl 3, Dodge 5, Empathy 


2, Intimidation 5, Leadership 3, Subterfuge 2 

Skills: Animal Ken 1, Etiquette 4, Firearms 4, Melee 4 
Knowledges: Bureaucracy 4, Camarilla Lore 5, Investigation 
4, Law 5, Politics 4, Sabbat Lore 4 

Disciplines: 
Obfuscate 


Auspex 4, Celerity 4, Dominate 5, Fortitude 3 
, Potence 5, Protean 3 

None 

, Camarilla Status 4, 
Generation 7, Herd 2, Resources 4 


Thaumaturgical Paths: 


Backgrounds: Allies Contacts 


Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 
Humanit 
Willpowe: 


The Coy By Nicer:Buntoinc Your Semmnc 


175 


We use ideas merely to justify our evil, and speech merely to 


conceal our ideas 


— Voltaire, Dialogue XIV 


There is a natural assumption that a game of Vampire 
is, by default, a Camarilla game. The book is called Vam- 
pire: The Masquerade, after all, and who else practices the 
Masquerade but the Camarilla? The connection seems 
logical enough, but it’s still not necessarily correct. There 
are matters of tone, style, mood, theme and definition that 
make a chronicle uniquely Camarilla. After all, if the 
Camarilla were all there was to Vampire, we wouldn’t have 
to worry about that pesky Sabbat now, would we? 


ATTHE HEART 
OF THINGS 


There are several core elements to Storytelling: mood, 
theme, plot and conflict. To Storytell a chronicle based 
around the Camarilla requires integrating those elements 
with the demands of using a sect that hides behind a 
Masquerade while pulling the strings of the mortal world 
There are things that make the Camarilla unique — the 
Masquerade, the Traditions, the Inner Circle, the justicars 
and so on — and all of these can be used to make your 


chronicle unique as well. The trick is to use those tools that 


are essentially Camarilla to make your game essentially 
Camarilla as well 


CApTAIN Vampire To THE Rescue! 

Ashas been stated earlier in this book, the vampires 
of the Camarilla are most emphatically not nice. They 
have a vested interest in avoiding wholesale slaughter of 
it’s a long way from that 
position to casting the Kindred as noble, unliving pro- 
tectors of humanity. Vampires, even those vampires 
who follow the Path of Humanity, are not superheroes; 
they don'tstalk the night looking for bad guys to beat up 
and leave them, a pint low, for the local gendarmes to 
find. While individual vampires may work to protect 
individual humans, the Camarilla as a whole does not 
work to protect humanity as a whole. Altruism is an 
expensive weakness among the Kindred, and any vam- 
pire who puts others’ good ahead of his own is exposing 


humans, but that’s about it 


himself dangerously to his enemies. 


ROLEpLAYING 
AND ROLLPLAYING 


There’ lling a game of Vampire 
than simply setting up the next tumn’s worth of bloody combat. 
While situations wherein characters are forced to use their 
assorted skills (represented in the game system by rolling dice) 


much more to Storyt 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MYSTERY:STORYTELLING 


177 


do come up, they shouldn’t be the whole game. Every time 10- 
sided plastic polyhedrons hit the table, the illusion of the story 
is shattered, and you as a Storyteller must reconstruct your 
players’ suspension of disbelief all over again. One of Vampire’s 
strengths is its capacity to support chronicles of intrigue and 
emotion, and Camarilla-based stories lend themselves to that 
sort of thing especially well. The traditions, customs and built- 
inconflictsof the Camarilla give youa wide palette of Storytelling 
tools, and by restricting yourself to using just one, you're 
shortchanging both your players and yourself. 

Furthermore, you should recognize that the most impor- 
tant aspect of Storytelling a Camarilla chronicle is not 
devotion to the rules and rolls, but rather making your game 
enjoyable. If the coterie comes up with a brilliant plan tosave 
themselves in the face of overwhelming opposition, but the 
dice roll falls just short, it might make sense to allow the 
characters to succeed in any case. If the characters are 
ambushed and you roll so well that the entire coterie would 
be dropped without getting off a single shot in response, it 
might behoove you to fudge the rolls in favor of your players 
so as to make for a better game. If necessary, you can always 
work this sort of deus ex machina mercy into your plot later — 
perhaps you can later hint that the ambushing party was 
under orders not to wipe out the entire coterie, but rather just 
to put a scare into them — and thus advance your chronicle 
even further. 

Finally, you should think about the very meaning of 
success and failure in your chronicle. When a player produces 
a handful of 3s and 4s on a roll with difficulty 6, it’s easy to say 
“OK, you failed. Next!” Instead, try to make those failures m 
something. Perhaps the characte: s wel eS ering 
windows all along the street and covering the area with broken 
glass. Maybe the failure was on an attempt to leap from rooftop 
to rooftop, and by failing the character ended up crashing 
through the window of a top-floor apartment instead. By 
ascribing context to failures on rolls of the dice (and successes 
aswell), you make those rolls a part of the story. By leaving them 
just as failed rolls, you lose an opportunity to draw your players 
even further into your story. 


Moop 


The mood of your game can best be described as the single 
emotion that best sums up your chronicle. While any chronicle 
worth its salt has more than one mood to it — hot and heavy 
combatshouldn’tevoke the same emotional response as playing 
politics in Elysium, after all — each story should have an 
overarching sense to it. Giving your chronicle an emotional 
unity helps you be consistent as a Storyteller. If you know the 
sort of emotion you're trying to invoke, you can direct your plots 
and play your characters in such a way as to emphasize that 
feeling. On the other hand, if you go into a chronicle with no 
clear idea of what the underlying mood should be, there’sa good 
chance that this lack of direction will manifest itself in areas of 
plot, character motivation and more. 


While Vampire is a versatile game, the Camarilla by 
definition lends itself better to certain sorts of moods than 
others. This is a sect built on tradition and respect, on well- 
disguised ferocity and obsession and contempt. There is a 
sense of restraint to the Camarilla (at least in front of others), 
aa willingness to abide (however grudgingly) by the laws laid 
down theoretically for the protection of all. With the adop- 
tion of the Path of Humanity by the sect’s vampires, there is 
a mood of regret or longing —at least among those Kindred 
young enough to remember what it was to be mortal. And 
there is bitter hatred for those who would tear down the 
Masquerade and destroy the sect. All of these senses and 
feelings should be taken into consideration when you're 
working up the basic mood of your chronicle. 


WHITILING It Down 

While you should consider the entire gamut of moods 
that the Camarilla can inspire for your game, eventually it’s 
best to select a single one to serve as the core emotion of your 
chronicle. Often this decision goes hand-in-hand with any 
decisions you make about your plot. Chronicles with a mood 
of sadness or longing probably shouldn’t be combat-inten- 
sive; wistful Kindred moping around firefights have a way of 
becoming casualties in short order. By the same token, a 
chronicle centered on hatred might be a bit awkward if the 

al plot is about a vampire’s quest to protect his mortal 

escendants. It’s certainly possible, with some effort, to 

reconcile those two elements, but you shouldn't make a habit 
of making more work for yourself than you have to. 

The primary criterion in selecting the essential mood of your 
chronicle is whetherornotyoucan sustain that mood throughout 
the entire storyline. A mood that works terrifically for single 
scenes might notbestrongenough tosustain the whole chronicle. 
For example, if vengeance is at the heart of your story, you may 
find yourselfhard-pressed tokeep the game going ifthe characters 
settle their old scores by the third session of play. While setting 
up instances centered around other moods is an excellent 
Storytelling technique — a steady diet of regret or hatred or 
anything else can get tiresome very quickly — you want to avoid 
confusing the main flavor of your game with the seasoning. 

A few moods that work well for Camarilla-centered 
games includ 

e Fear 

The Sabbat is coming. The elders are whittling down the 
ranks of their childer. The Antediluvians might be waking. 
The Lupines are growing bolder in their raids on the city. 
Anarchs are inciting younger Kindred to revolt. Any and all 
of these worries can and should make for a heady brew of 
paranoia among your city's Kindred, allowing you to establish 
a mood of fear that permeates your chronicle. 

© Regret 

Your players’ coterie watches mortal existence recede 
into the dim and distant past. Parents, friends, lovers and 
children grow old and die — all without the characters. 


Tht GUIDE 10 THe CAMARILLA 


178 


Occasionally there is a reminder of humanity, perhaps in the 
form of a mortal who reminds a character of what he used to 
be, but that reminiscence just emphasizes the characters’ loss 
once it passes. Chronicles with a mood of regret often center 
on characters’ attempts to hang onto the last shreds of their 
Humanity, often in the face of the inhuman demands of 
existence among the Kindred 

e Mystery 

The characters have entered an entirely new existence. 
Everything about their very being is strange to them, letalone 
the customs and perils of their new world. Playing up the 
aspect of alienation and confusion that mystery presents can 
make for extended chronicles of discovery, especially if other 
Kindred are trying to keep the truth from the coterie 

+ Hatred 

The entire myth of how the Kindred came to be is rooted 
in hatred, and the Camarilla does little to disgrace that 
legacy. Childer hate their sires for plucking them into a state 
of unlife. Sires hate their ambitious progeny, who look with 
hungry eyes at their elders. The clans war with each other, 
when not uniting to confront the hated Sabbat. Just as deadly 
is the unspoken self-loathing many Kindred feel, driving 
them to commit acts that risk destruction. 

+ Ambition 

Mortal concerns pale when a human receives the Em- 
brace, but immortal ambitions can make for an acceptable 
substitute. The desire to rise in generation, in status, in power 
or in rank can drive a vampire to commit acts both unspeak 
able and superhuman. A sense of ambition can drive your 
players’ characters to greater and greater heights of achieve: 
ment — or can lead them to crushing weights of failure. 

© Respect 

The Camarilla is built on respect for tradition (and 
Tradition). A chronicle can easily be constructed around 


neonates’ attempts to deal properly with their elders and the 
strictures of their sect, particularly when defying either might 
be an easy way to get ahead 

* Loyalty 


Loyalty can be a difficult thing to situate at the heart of 


your chronicle, but when used properly it can drive dynamic 


storylines. The loyalty of childe to sire, of members of acoterie 
to one another and to their clans, and the overriding loyalty 
each vampire should feel to the sect — any andall of these can 
be called into question or tested at a moment's notice. What 
happens, for example, when a neonate is offered prime hunting 
grounds in exchange for setting up a member of his coterie for 
destruction? The stresses and demands of loyalty — particu- 
larly when the blood bond comes into play — make for fertile 
material for a wide range of chronicles. 


THEME 


If mood is the central emotion of your chronicle, then 
the theme is the central idea. Whereas the mood can be 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MYSTERY: STORYTELLING 
179 


summed up by an emotion, the theme can usually be summed 
up as an abstract idea — tradition, for example, or antiquity. 
The events of your plot should support your theme and 
highlight it, using the mechanisms of the story to get across 
the central point of your chronicle. 


THEME AND THE CAMARILLA 

Certain themes lend themselves better to Camarilla 
chronicles than do others. The very makeup of the sect — 
older vampires dictating policy to younger ones — fairly 
screams for themes of rebellion and oppression. The fact of 
the elders’ existence speaks more to themes of age and 
remembrance; chronicles that contrast the Kindred’s past 
with their present often have such themes. Political games 
can center on themes of intrigue and betrayal, while horror is 
another perennial favorite when the characters are upagainst 
Kindred more monstrous than they are. 

With its heritage of formality and tradition, the sect does 
offer innumerable tools for reinforcing any theme you choose. 
The indifference of an elder to a neonate’s plot can be used to 
spur the youngster’s incipient revolt, or to demonstrate the 
elder’s age and perspective. The timeless elegance of a meeting 
at Elysium plays up the sect’s tradition to some, while exposing 
stagnation to others. Use what the Camarilla gives you, and 
you'll find plenty of material to support your chronicle’s themes. 


Dror 


The plot of your chronicle is nothing less than the story 
itself, the sequence of events that propels and supports your 
chronicle. Without a plot, all you have is a disconnected 
scattering of events with no coherent framework or direction. 
With a strong plot, however, you have a skeleton on which to 
drape the other elements — mood, theme, character develop- 
ment — of your chronicle. 


SINGULAR OR DLURAL ? 

While having only one plot going at a time offers the 
pleasures of simplicity, you might want to explore the notion 
of having multiple plots running simultaneously. Bear in 
mind that in a sect like the Camarilla, wherein open warfare 
is theoretically prohibited, plotting is the only way to get 
ahead of one’s rivals. You, as Storyteller, should take your 
characters’ plots (as determined by their personalities) and 
make them your chronicles’ plots as well. 

Consider this notion: The Kindred aren’t going to stand 
around courteously and wait for one another's schemes to come 
tofruition before initiating their own, afterall. Why shouldn’tthe 
Nosferatu primogen be working to undermine a particularly 
snobbish keeper of Elysium at the same time two Ventrue are 
struggling over control of a new hi-tech corporate campus and a 
Malkavian neonate is trying to survive in the face of new 
legislation that closes down mental institutions, dumping his 
entire herd onto the street? Bear in mind that just because your 
characters are plotting doesn’t mean that their plots will impact 
your players’ coterie all the time, or even any of the time. After 


all, if your chronicle travels from boardroom to museum to luxury 
suite, odds are that the plight of the lone Malkavian won't be a 
matter of much concern. On the other hand, knowing what that 
Malkavian is up to and making sure to advance his storyline (to 
yourself, at least) means that if one of the player's characters takes 
a bite out of that Lunatic’s exclusive property, the machinery to 
make a story out of the incident is already in place. 

Running multiple plots also lets you give players options. 
If your Elysium plot doesn’t appeal to half of your troupe, then 
perhaps starting a second plotline involving a power struggle 
on the streets might pique their interest. There's also the 
appeal of differently paced plots, wherein one plotline only 
pops up every third session or so, while the vampires’ night- 
to-night activity deals with entirely different matters. For 
example, the coterie might be caught up in a struggle to 
influence the city’s newly burgeoning Russian community, 
which requires nightly immersion in that world as well as 
constant challenges from rivals. At the same time, however, 
those same vampires might be under observation by a local 
Tremere elder, who decides to test them every so often in his 
own inimitable fashion. The two plots co-exist and occasion- 
ally interact (when, for example, the Tremere aids and abets 
the coterie’s rivals to see how the group handles adversity), 
but they appear with different frequencies. One serves as a 
change of pace for the other, and as a reminder that Kindred 
existence is much more complicated than just getting from 
point A to point B. 

Remember, the Kindred are creatures of machination. 
Some have spent decades, if not centuries or millennia 
developing their schemes, working through others who often 
don’t even know they're part of some elder being’s plans. 
These ancient schemersare your creations within the bound- 
aries of your chronicle; every Kindred’s personal agenda 
should double as a potential plotline for you to use. 


Bic Prot, Lrrrre Prot 

The scale of your plot is something to consider carefully. 
On its basic level, the Camarilla functions city by city. As a 
result, most plotlines should operate within the boundaries of 
asingle city. Whether those plots are as grandiose as attempts 
to overthrow princes or visits from angry justicars, or as 
personal as a single vampire’s quest to earn permission to 
Embrace a terminally ill loved one is a matter of taste, but the 
city is the unit by which most Camarilla plots are measured. 

Whethersuch plotsare “big” or “small” generally dependson 
how many other Kindred are involved, and thus what the 
consequences of the plot might be. An attempt by the coterie to 
overthrow the local prince, for example, is effectively a “big” plot, 
as the prince has enemies, allies and childer (all of whom have 
their own agendas to be satisfied) that the storyline must bring 
into the mix. Such chronicles frequently have large casts of 
Storytellercharactersand complex webs of character interaction, 
and they can be difficult for inexperienced Storytellers to run 
well. The bigger the plot (and the more earthshaking its potential 
consequences), the more complex it is likely to be to run. 


The Gup To THE Camara 


180 


On the other hand, “small” plots usually only involve a 
few individuals, and are much less complicated. They can be 
roleplaying or combat intensive — a vampire’s relationship 
with his mortal family, or the coterie’s struggle to establish 
itself in a small city with only a few resident Kindred — but 
they are generally less complex and less demanding than 
“big” plots. Bear in mind, however, that a small plot doesn’t 
have to stay small together. The mortal who spends too much 
time checking in on his family might draw the ire of his clan 
elder, who decides to teach him and his friendsa lesson, or the 
small city the coterie settles could become the target of an 
archon’s fact-finding mission. However, small plots serve as 
an excellent way to practice for bigger ones, in addition to 
making for good chronicles by themselves. 

Camarilla plots are not limited to the city scale, how- 
ever. In theory, the sect encompasses every vampire in the 
world, and its members can reach thousands of years of age. 
Plots involving the sect as a whole, or the schemes of elders 
and Antediluvians, certainly qualify as “big” plots. Con- 
claves, hunts for vampires on the dreaded Red List, bold 
moves in the Jyhad — all of these work through the institu- 
tion of the Camarilla ona grand scale. If you're going tocreate 
a narrative on this scale (and the framework of the game can 
certainly support doing so), just be prepared to do the legwork 
necessary with such an ambitious chronicles. A conclave (see 
page 130.) is much more than just throwing a few thousand 
vampires into a single room and letting them go; you have to 
work out the arrangements, agendas and problems that go 
with the conclave as well. On the other hand, a plot that uses 
such grandiose devices can, ifdone well, inspire awe and some 
spectacular roleplaying. Just make sure you're up to the 
challenge before trying it. 


PLottinG THE CAMARILLA 

Using the Camarilla as the starting point for crafting your 
plot means that certain of your narrative choices are already 
defined for you. If you're going to run a Camarilla chronicle, 
thereare functionsand traditionsof the sect —the Masquerade, 
the Traditions, the city’s vampiric hierarchy and so on — that 
must be taken into account when you're constructing your plot. 
Rather than being a handicap, these pre-existing constructions 
can work for you, giving you the building blocks of a solidly 
constructed narrative. 

Plots centered around the sect usually have one of three 
main foci: 

* Defending the Camarilla 

The easiest plots toconstruct, stories that revolve around 
defending the sect can be out-and-out action fests, with your 
players’ characters going toe-to-toe with the Camarilla’s 
enemies. Such plots can be simple slugfests or cat-and-mouse 
chases after infiltrators. Either way, though, the plot revolves 
around the Camarilla being on the defensive. 

e Advancing the Camarilla 

Stories to advance the Camarillacan involve improving the 
sect in terms of territory, power or policy. A plot to advance the 


STAYING At Home 

Observant Storytellers will no doubt notice that at the 
rate experience points get handed out, even the slowest- 
learning characters acquire ludicrous amounts of power in 
a few short months. Extrapolating that trend across the 
thousands of years that elders have existed, one comes up 
with staggering numbers of dots’ worth of powers. 

Then one looks at the statistics provided for pre-made 
characters, and doesn’t see quite so many dots as all that. 
The discrepancy can be troubling. 

There is, however, a reason for the differential: Vam- 
pires don’t spend all their time running around doing things 
that, in game terms, garner them experience. Scouring the 
streets fighting the Sabbat, meddling with elders and other- 
wise exposing one’s self to mortal danger is not standard 
vampiric behavior. With immortality a certainty, what vam- 
pire is going to risk his eternal existence any more than 
necessary? Most Kindred spend the vast majority of their time 
hiding behind ghouls and mortals, tending to their concerns 
and plots and resolutely avoiding danger. As a result, they 
don’t rack up knowledge of new skills too quickly. 

Player characters, needless to say, are the exception 
to this trend. They're out in the trenches, doing deeds of 
daring and otherwise picking up new Abilities and Disci- 
plines. Bear in mind when Storytelling that your players’ 
characters are advancing at a much faster rate than their 
peers in the city, and don’t let them get too far ahead of 
everyone else too fast. 


Camarilla can range from an assault on a Sabbat city to an 
attempted assassination of a particularly competent Lasombra 
bishop. There are less obvious ways to center plots on the notion 
of advancing the Camarilla as well: Struggles to remove incom- 
petent elders or princes, attempts to make sect policy or ways to 
modernize fossilized practicesall fall under this rubric, and all offer 
interesting challenges for characters. 

è Working With the Camarilla 

Working with (or within) the sect can cover any number of 
plot ideas. Attempts by the characters to advance politically, 
machinationsby elders touse orabuse their lessers, situations where 
the Masquerade must be defended and othersuch storiesall fall into 
this category. Such plots are marked less by open conflictand more 
by politicking, intrigue and subtle uses of Disciplines. 


SIGNATURE Devices 

One of the best ways to make your game distinctively 
Camarilla is to use the traditions and customs of the sect as core 
elements of your plotting. There's no sense making your game 
Camarilla if you don’t take advantage of some of the story 
elements that the Camarilla has to offer. Consider the following: 

+ The Masquerade 

In many ways, the decision to create and maintain the 
Masquerade is the defining feature of the Camarilla. Much of 
the sect’s energy can be tied up in the maintenance of this veil 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MysTERY: STORYTELLING 


181 


to hide the fact of vampiric existence from the vast seas of 
humanity. Plots can revolve around attempts to repair the 
Masquerade because of new or existing breaches, characters’ 
questioning of the need of the Masquerade (and attracting 
unwelcome attention for doing so), or finding new and better 
ways to uphold the deception and trying to convince elders 
to accept the new-fangled notions. 

* The Red List 

Anyone on the legendary Red List is probably far, far out 
of the average coterie’s league when it comes to combat. 
However, you can still use the rumor of a Red List vampire to 
stir up all sorts of plot-based-trouble in your chronicle. And 
nothing says that the players’ coterie €an’tgetin on the action 
if other Kindred decide to join the huntfor 2 hatéd fugitive... 

+ The Traditions 

The Traditions are the ironclad laws of the sect. Innu- 
merable plots can come from autempts to citcumyent, break 
or uphold them. Local variants on the Traditions can also be’ 
fun to play with, as newcomers tô a éity find themselves, 
struggling to learn new laws before they petthemselves killed 
over a misinterpretation.... 

* Conclaves 


Conclaves are certainly Camatilla-specific; gatherings 
ofall the sect’s vampires (or at least as many as can travelfar 


a gathering that has the potential for all sorts gffisagienet 
Putting that many Kindred in one place at onetime has'the 
potential for innumerable plots. Old enemiet, long Iid 
loversre-appear, ancient rivalriesare renewed, political powell 
plays are spawned — the possibilities are endless. 

e Archons and Justicars 

The heavy hitters of the sect can inspire story ideas just by 
the mere threat of their presence. Word that an archon iscoming 
can produce all sorts of frenzied behavior on the parts of thife 
who have something to hide. The actual arrival of an archon, OF 
worse, her superior, can really shake the metaphorical tree. Ag 
for what comes down at that point, well, its up to you. 

e Elysium 

Elysium means intrigue and the endless quest for socif™ 
status. In a setting where use of Disciplines is prohibited, 
vampires must resort to more subtle means to achieve theif 
ends, and that makes for more subtle plotlines. 


CALAMITIES 

To no one’s surprise, pre-planned plots have a lemming- 
like habit of going astray. Characters don’t open the doors 
they're supposed to or kill key witnesses accidentally; intgr- 
coterie conflict diverts Kindred from vital clues. And so it 
goes as the players’ characters go off on wild goose chases 
while your beautiful, meticulously constructed plot either 
falls to pieces or remains basically untouched. 

In situations like that, the worst thing you can do as a 
Storyteller is to attempt to force your players to adhere to 
your plot. Such efforts are rarely subtle, often noticed and 
always resented. By telling the characters that they have to 


do some things and can’t do others, you disrupt the natural 
flow of the story. 

Instead, think about where the characters are going with 
the storyline. See if there’s any way you can direct them back 
toward the pre-planned plot gently. Introducing Storyteller 
characters who are tied strongly into the abandoned plot 
works well for this sort of thing. 

Otherwise, the best thing you can do is take your pre- 
planned plot and shelve it temporarily, letting it slide until 
the characters are ready to give it another go. The vampires 
of the Camarilla are nothing if not patient. If they can hatch 
aplot th: s a hundred years; you can wait a few weeks to 
put it into action. 


CONFLICT 


Conflict is av the hearvof all chronicle plotting. A city 
wheréinall the Kindred dwell in perfect harmony, everyone is 
satisfied with his lot and the Masquerade is preserved perfectly 
may make for an wonderful place to live, but it honestly isn't 
a particularly excitingsetting for Storytelling. Conflict, the 
opposition of forces and) wills, is what makes for exciting 
Stofytelling. Note that conflict isnot automatically equivalent 
to combat. There are many, many ways in which the Kindred 
pit themselves against one another and their enemies, and 
most don’Binvolve bloodshed — at least not immediately. 

Decidinig what the sources of conflict in your chronicle 
äre and figuring out how the characters fit into those conflicts 
(A hint: If they don’t figure at least peripherally in every 
conflict you've established, it’s time to start looking for a 
different plot seed) should form the core of your plotting. 
Every area of contention you establish should somehow 
impact the characters’ coterie, and should help to drive your 
plot toward its ultimate conclusion. 


Tue Basics 


The obvious and basic conflict in a Camarilla game pits 
the Camarilla itself against its enemies. Establishing an “us 
Against them” conflict right off the bat helps to establish the 
characters as actively pro-Camarilla. By swinging into the fray 
against the Camarilla’s enemies — and those enemies can be 
Sabbat, unaligned vampires, other supernatural beings or even 


A Sense OFAGE 

Camarilla plots often have lineages stretching back 
centuries. If you involve older vampires in your storyline, 
youshould make certain to see how far back their involve- 
mentin events goes, and why they got involved in the first 
place. Realizing that the characters’ life-or-death struggle 
is just the latest, minor skirmish in a private war that’s 
lasted since the Reformation does wonders for establish- 
ingasense of perspective in yourchronicle. If you're going 
to use old Kindred, make sure you use their age as well as 
their accumulated statistics as tools in telling your story. 


Tht GUDE TO THe CAMARLLA 


182 


vampire hunters — the characters clearly draw the line as to 
whom they are for, as well as whom they are against. A story 
with this sort of conflict at its heart doesn’t necessarily have to 
be just a straight-up slugfest. A quest to find a Sabbat infiltrator 
or to stop a lone Ravnos from stealing the prince's symbols of 
office clearly sets the Camarilla, in the form of the players’ 
coterie, up against its enemies. There’s nothing wrong with a 
good old-fashioned brawl in the streets with a bloodthirsty 
pack of Sabbat neonates, but there's much more to lining the 
Camarilla up against its enemies than simply having everyone 
charge into a scrum, fangs bared and Uzis barking. 


CONFLICT WITH THE SABBAT 

The Sabbat is the natural opponent for the Camarilla, and 
there are a wide variety of stories that can make use of this 
opposition. Whereas the Camarilla works through and around 
mortals, the Sabbat wants to ride roughshod over them. While 
the Camarilla is built on tradition and formality, the Sabbat was 
born in chaos and anarchy, and looks to mere custom for its 


Knowing Too Mucu 

It cannot be overemphasized that when you cross over 
other supernatural creatures into your game ignorance is 
bliss. The line between player knowledge and character 
knowledge must be maintained vigilantly, otherwise famil- 
iarity breeds contempt. Remember, your coterie doesn’t 
know anything about what werewolves, mages, etc. are 
really like — they're lucky if they've been taught the basics 
of being a vampire. So when a scruffy bum responds to a 
neonate’s attempt at feeding by metamorphosing into a 
nine-foot-tall column of rage, fur and fangs, the characters 
should not respond with a shrug and, “Oh, it’s a Bone 
Gnawer in Crinos form. Bob, flip me the book so I can see 
what Gifts he’s likely to have.” The players might know 
what a Bone Gnawer is, but the odds are very, very long 
against a given character knowing what one might be. 
Instead, the characters should react with the shock, fear 
and horror appropriate to seeing a puny mortal mutate into 
a hateful and terrifying killing machine. 

If the characters survive, they will probably under- 
stand that they've just come face-to-snout with a Lupine. 
They may, if they decide they need to know more on the 
topic, uncover the fact that Lupines supposedly live in 
tribes and have some sort of magical powers, but little more 
unless they decide to devote their afterlives to the study of 
the beasts. Allowing your characters to know too much 
about their fellow travelers — or letting your players get 
away with sneaking out-of-game knowledge into in-play 
situations —can goa long way toward lessening the impact 
encounters with other supernatural beings should have. 

Players who consistently metagame should be disci- 
plined in some fashion, preferably by stripping experience 
from their characters. After all, characters who sound like 
they've just read the rulebook, and who can quote it 
chapter and verse, really don’t sound like characters atall. 


guidelines. While the Camarilla putatively has laws to govern its 
members’ dealings with both the world at large and one another, 
the Sabbat respects only brute strength and animal cunning. 
From these seeds of difference, massive conflicts can grow. 

Ata core level, conflict with the Sabbat can be seen as 
military. The Camarilla holds a city, the Sabbat wants it, and the 
two sides tussle bloodily. That sort of conflict is an excellent way 
tokick-starta plot with the Sabbatcastas the villains—throwing 
afresh coterie into a combat situation does much to establish the 
vampires who are trying to kill them as antagonists — but it’s not 
theonly way touse the opposition of the Sabbatplot-wise. A strict 
diet of combat, combat and more combat gets dull rapidly, and a 
never-ending fight in the trenches to keep the Sabbat outof town 
can get murderously boring after the first half-dozen battles. 

The Sabbat is smart, after all. It hasn’t survived the past 
half-millennium by being repetitive in its tactics. So consider 
all of the ways conflict with the Sabbat can play itself out. 
Spies and recruiters from the Sabbat constantly attempt to 
cross Camarilla borders. Neonates and even more experi- 
enced Kindred succumb to Sabbat blandishments (or are 
kidnapped) and go over to the other side. Packs of antitribu 
constantly chip away at the Masquerade, forcing the Camarilla 
toexpend resources to defend it. All of these instances — and 
by extension, all of the plots that can be spun from them — 
revolve around the conflict between the two great sects. 


ConFLict WITH OTHER SUPERNATURALS 

It’s a truism that very few people in the World of Darkness 
like vampires. To Lupines they're corrupted targets, to be annihi- 
lated on sight. Mortal wizards have a track record of performing 
unpleasant experiments with vitae — vide the origins of Clan 
Tremere. Too many ghosts were created by sloppy or callous 
vampires for wraiths ever to be too friendly with their unliving 
counterparts. And there are even stranger monstrosities out there 
that hold no love for Caine’s childer, even the supposedly 
civilized ones who dwell in the Masquerade’s shadow. 

So far, so good, but why conflict with the Camarilla in 
particular? The institution of the Masquerade provides much 
of the answer. By using mortals as tools, the Kindred trample 
other supernaturals’ interests underfoot. A Ventrue with her 
fingers in the housing industry cares little that the three new 
developments she’s putting up to gain economic advantage 
over a rival might be situated on top of territory sacred to the 
local Lupines. The city’s sheriff doesn’t know or care that 
there might have been a metaphysical connection between 
the cabdriver he just murdered as part of a cover-up and a 
vengeance-minded ghost. By involving or discarding others, 
the Kindred draw the ire of others as well. 

Defending against the assaults of supernatural foes also 
presents a unique complication for Camarilla vampires. After 
all, theirs is still the responsibility to maintain the Masquerade, 
no matter what they might be confronted with. So after the 
walls stop dripping blood, summoned lightning stops streaking 
froma clear sky and assorted enraged werewolves have finished 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MisteRy: STORYTELLING 


183 


HUuNTERSIN DACKS 

While the fictional Van Helsing may have worked 
essentially by himself, there are dedicated and powerful 
rganizations in the World of Darkness that view the 
eradication of the Kindred as their goal. The still-active 
Inquisition, using a combination of faith and technology, 
works tirelessly to rid the world of vampires and other 
monsters. Government agencies from the mysterious 
Project Twilight to more mundane branches like the CDC 
and FBI have all stumbled across vampire-related anoma- 
lies, and may be working toward an awareness of the 
Kindred presence. Occult groups such as the storied 
Arcanum work tirelessly to gather knowledge on vam 
pires, and none know why they it. And then there are 
rumors — just rumors — of hunters blessed (or cursed) 
with supernatural powers themselves 

For more information on established groups of vam 
pire-hunters in the World of Darkness, see The Inquisition. 


tearing the place up, it's left to any vampires still standin 

to explain away the mess. Doing so takes valuable ener 
resources that the Kindred could be using to defend themselves, 
thus making them easier targets for the next round of assaults, 
and so on. The need to maintain the Masquerade, even in the 
face of magick and claw, puts a uniquely Camarilla twist on 
what otherwise might be simply a dull monster mash 


Conruict WITH Hunters 

Just because the Kindred see mortals as playthings and prey 

Joesn't mean that mortals necessarily like it. From time imme 
morial mere humans have done their best to hunt the monsters 
who have plagued them. The names of the boldest of these 
unters have been immortalized: Theseus, Beowulf, St. George 
and others. The modern era offers fewer heroic names, but that 
Joesn't mean the urge to strike back has vanished. The conflict 
between Kindred and those humans who would turn the tables 
on them remains an energetic one, and one that holds not only 
lives, but also the Masquerade itself in the balance 

Conflict with vampire hunters usually takes two forms 
The first is the cat-and-mouse game of hunter and prey, 
except that when it comes to would-be slayers of Kindred it’s 
never quite sure who's the hunter and who's being hunted 
Often such chases grow into closed loops, with the pursued 
Kindred desperately trying to rid themselves of their homi- 
cidal stalkerevenas their fellow vamp Jistance themselves 
for fear of becoming the next targets. 

The other way to use conflict with hunters is more subtle 
though perhaps more dangerous. While some modem-day Van 
Helsings think the best way to rid the world of vampires is with 
stake and shotgun, others see information as their ultimate 


weapon. These hunters seek to spread knowledge of vam 


very existence, to shatter the Masquerade irrevocably and to 


rouse all of humanity against all of the monsters in its midst. The 


battle between these mortalsand the Kindred whoseek tosilence 


THe Gu 


them is a constant one. Killing one such mortal merely makes 
others believe inher message; meanwhile the Kindred whotugon 
the strings of the media seek to have self-appointed supernatural 
investigators branded kooks, crackpots and worse. The battle for 
theheartsand mindsofacity, andultimately, the world, can make 
fora fascinating campaignas the Masquerade teeterson the brink. 


Story IDEAS 

There are any number of stories that can come from 
setting up a conflict between the Camarilla and its enemies. 
The following are basic ideas, but they can serve as a basis for 
a more involved plot. 

© The coterie notices the local Caitiff and anarchs are 
going missing. Investigating, they discover a Sabbat war party 
recruiting reinforcements for an assault on the city. Can the 
coterie make it out in one piece? What if they're ordered to 
go back and infiltrate the would-be invaders? And if all else 
fails, how can they help to stop the attack? 

© A newcomer to the city turns out to be a Sabbat mole. 
He goes after the coterie one member ata time, recruiting them 
and turning them against one another. Can he be stopped, or 
will the Kindred turn en masse to the Sabbat? And what about 
the possibility of betrayal? An ambitious neonate can go far by 
selling out her friends to the sheriff as less-than-loyal citizens. 

e There’s a Sabbat infiltrator somewhere in the city, and 
it's the coterie’s job to find her. Can they shake her loose 
before she weakens the local Camarilla too much? And how 
can the investigation proceed when all of the other Kindred 
of the city — guilty and innocent alike — have secrets they 
don’t want the coterie uncovering? 

e The vampires do something to anger a pack of Lupines 
who live on the outskirts of the city. Can they even figure out 
what they’ve done before the werewolves tear them to shreds, 
and is there any way to make amends? And if not, what can 
they do to have any chance at survival? 

© A member of the coterie kills a mortal during feeding. 
Unfortunately, that’s not the end of it, as the mortal returns from 
beyond the grave to haunt his murderer as a ghost. Now the 
unquiet soul is doing its best to ensure the vampire’s destruction, 
and it doesn’t care whom else it gets in the meanwhile. Is there 
anyway to free the besieged Kindred from these unwelcome 
attentions before they turn fatal for the entire coterie? 

© The coterie gets sloppy and leaves behind evidence 
that a team of professional vampire-hunters picks up. Slowly 
but surely the hunters close the net on the coterie, even as the 
rest of the city’s Kindred population abandons them to their 
fate. Can the vampires turn the tables on their pursuers, and 
even if they do, what about the inevitable next wave? 

e A local professor goes to the media with astonishing 
news: Vampires really exist! In the confusion surrounding the 
attempts to suppress his information, the professor dies, 
possibly at the coterie’s hands. Now his students and those 
who believed him are convinced of the truth of what he wrote 
— the man died for it, after all — and are seeking to spread 


their gospel as widely as possible. It’s up to the coterie to 
contain and defuse the situation, but with each passing night 
more and more mortals join the crusade... 


INTERNAL CONFLICT 


HKINDRED VERSUS KINDRED 


Ithas been stated, only halfin jest, that if the Sabbat really 
wanted to destroy the Camarilla, all they really had to do was 
leave it alone. While this may be a slight exaggeration, there 
is no denying that the internal stresses of the sect keep things 
interesting for all concerned. Neonates struggle for survival 
against their peers, ancillae attempt to climb in power (often 
over the corpses of their predecessors), elders plot and scheme 
against one another, and even the clans themselves exist in 
only an uneasy peace. There is conflict a-plenty — and thus 
more than enough grist for a Storyteller’s mill — within the 
Camarilla’s borders. If you don’t want to look out of the 
Camarilla for enemies for your players’ characters, rest assured 
that there are plenty already inside the borders. 


Looxinc Up: Neonates 

There are numerous reasons for neonates to be hated. 
First of all, they are weak, and in a society of predators the 
strong always despise the weak. Even the most promising 
newcomer to the Blood is easy meat to the weakest ancilla, 
and rest assured that the ancillae take every opportunity to 
reinforce the truth of the notion. 

Neonates are also only years, or on some cases hours, 
removed from their Humanity. They still act on occasion in 
very human fashion, making mistakes that will be repeated 
less and less often as they grow accustomed to their new 
status. Some Kindred loathe them for the incompetence thus 
displayed, others for the unwanted reminder these fledglings 
provide of earlier, more innocent times. Either way, the mere 
fact of a neonate’s stumbling existence is enough to earn 
other Kindred’s ire. 

There’s also the matter of politics. A neonate is far more 
than just another inexperienced vampire. She’s a political 
statement, a favor fulfilled, a prize ghoul rewarded or snatched 
away from a rival. She’s a potential successor to her sire — and 
competition to the rest of her sire’s brood. She will eventually 
seek territory to govern and hunt in, and that territory can only 
come from the possessions of another Kindred. In the end, every 
vampire who is or who stands to be hurt by a neonate’s Embrace 
has very good reason for hating, or seeking to destroy, her. 

There's even the notion of rivalry between neonates. In a 
crowded city, when the numbers of vampires need to be culled, 
the culling’s going to start at the bottom. It’s neonates who are 
most likely to be sacrificed to the pressures of population. 
Getting ahead (or disposing) of one’s peers is a more than just 
hyper-competitiveness; it’s a question of survival. Multiple 
childer of a single sire may have especially intense sibling 
rivalries as a result, but the pressure comes from all sides. 
Besides, other neonates are generally the only other vampires 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MYSTERY:STORYTELLING 


185 


On Coterit BUILDING 

A coterie makes sense not only as a plot device to keep 
your players’ characters together, but also as an in-game tool 
for keeping them alive. A solid and well-balanced coterie 
safeguards its individual members against bullying and ran- 
dom violence, while establishing a few built-in allies foreach 
character. At the same time, coterie internal politics serve as 
good practice for the deadlier version that each neonate is 
going to encounter if he survives long enough. In addition, 
a coterie situation is a wonderful learning environment for 
new players, who get to work with more experienced players 
in a scenario where the stakes are not yet earthshattering. 

With that in mind, you should encourage your players 
to build a stable and workable coterie for their characters. A 
strong coterie has a good central raison d'être (a common foe, 
princely fiat, acquaintance from before the Embrace, a 
shared blood bond, a mutual ambition) and a willingness to 
work together. No coterie lasts long if one of the characters 
is simply out to eliminate his fellows; the same holds if there 
are two characters locked in a bitter feud. The former 
scenario tends to devolve intocycles of vengeance; the latter 
often turns into a grandstand for the two rivals while every 
one else sits around and takes notes. A good coterie has 
reasons for getting together and staying together, not flying 
apart. Those tend to arise on their own soon enough. 

Once the reason for the coterie has been established, it 
makes sense to make certain that there’s a level playing field 
within the group. If one member of the coterie can ride 
roughshod over the rest, it’s not going to be much fun to play 
one of his doormats. Coteries are collections of peers, coteries 
of neonates especially so. So if one character appears over- 
powered or simply doesn’t fit the concept of the group (a 
biker Gangrel who likes breaking things dropped among a 
flock of intriguing Toreador and Ventrue, for example), it 
can get disruptive. If you feel that a character simply doesn’t 
work within the confines of your players’ coterie, youcan and 
should use coterie stability as a reason to get that player to 
think about modifying his persona to make the game run 
more smoothly. 


that neonates stand a chance against; neonate-on-neonate 
conflict is a case of picking on someone your own size. 

Itis the external pressure from older and more experienced 
Kindred that forcescoteries of neonates to form; itis the internal 
pressure from freshly budding rivalries that causes them to split 
apart in the end. A coterie of peers, all of similar experience and 
potential, is an excellent survival device. Within a stable 
coterie, there’s always someone watching your back, and there’s 
enough combined firepower present to encourage Kindred 
looking for someone to bully to look elsewhere. 

Stories involving neonates always involve a high degree 
of paranoia. There’s always someone gunning for the new kids 


on the vampiric block, and neonates who expect to survive 
know this. Furthermore, few neonates really know the ins and 
outs of their new status — sires often teach their childer 
enough to survive, but little more — and as such are con- 
stantly running into trouble spawned from myth, legend and 
ignorance. While most neonates can count on at least the 
cursory protection of their sires (the boon of creation is an 
expensive one, and few Kindred wish to throw it away 
lightly), the relentless Darwinian pressure of v 
ence can take its toll. Any neonate worth his salt has earned 
the enmity of at least a half-dozen other Kindred, all of whom 
will take some form of steps to deal with the upstart. 


mpiric exist- 


HIGHER GROUND: ANCILLAE 

Neonates get picked on; ancillae get targeted. Those 
Kindred whosurvive theirunliving adolescence don’t have it 
any easier than the neonates do, they just have a slightly 
different range of rivals. For one thing, ancillae have been 
around long enough to recognize that the Camarilla equiva- 
lent of the glass ceiling is at least as permanent as the mortal 
one —there’s no room at the top, and a great many immortal 
killing machines who'd like to keep it that way. The only way 
to ascend in power is to create an opening, and there are no 
easy targets waiting. Besides, any ancilla who looks like she’s 


CLIMBING THE LADDER 

By the time a vampire reaches ancilla status, the simple 
thrill of unliving existence is pretty much gone. After a few 
decades, immortality becomes less of a gift and more of a 
terrible, oppressive weight. Ennuisets in as cruising clubs and 
leaping across rooftops lose their charm. Simply existing is 
no longer enough; there has to be some sort of goal that can 
give an ancilla’s nights meaning. 

For many ancillae, the answer to this dilemma of 
boredom is politics. With a complex hierarchy of offices and 
titles already in place, the Camarilla offers any number of 
attainable and visible goals for the ambitious ancilla. Exist- 
ence then becomes a grand strategy of maneuvering one’s 
predecessor out of her office and oneself into it. Such 
intrigues can make for excellent low-combat, high-tension _ 
chronicles, as the characters attempt to destabilize their 
“superiors” while those Kindred seek to fend off the ancillae’s 
challenges. Success can bring new challenges — how do the 
characters handle their new responsibilities, and how are the 
deposed Kindred’s patrons responding to the loss of their 
catspaws — and new story ideas. On the other hand, even if 
the characters fail at their attempt at social climbing inter- 
esting plot developments can come out of it. Their former 
rivals might seek vengeance, and other Kindred could well 
see the defeated characters as easy targets. Kicking a coterie 
when it’s down is a favorite habit among the Kindred, after 
all. And just because a coterie’s down doesn’t mean it’s out 
— defeat (if the characters survive) is just an excuse toseek © 
vengeance and start plotting anew. 


The GUDE TO THe CAMARLLA 


186 


competent to claw her way to a position of power is going to 
attract a great deal of attention from older, more established 
Kindred who may not fancy the status of potential victim. 

Ancillae also have responsibilities} andjwith fesponsi4 
bilities come the consequences of failing to uphold those. 
responsibilities. All competent varnpiresjof this age have 
some form of domain or territory, péfHapseven orte as vital as 
keeping an eye on a newspaper ona freight yard- A failure to 
look after one’s area properly willdraw the ire ofa pteatmany 
other Kindred, and the attention of ambitious neonateswho. 
think they can handle the post better. 

Neonates can also be a problem for the ayétage afteilla. 
Thenewly made Kindred often travel in coteries thatdiffet from. 
Sabbat packs in precious few details, and sueh groups have aft 
eye out for any lone ancilla whostrays into irspath. While a lone 
neonate is no great challenge for an aneilla, five bloodthirsty 
and well-armed ones can be, particu if they've got thal 
shotguns loaded and diablerie on their minds. 

Of course, an ancilla’s worst enémy can be his fellow 
ancillae. If there's a single office open — bé'it whip, keeper of 
Elysium or prince’s dogcatcher — there will be ‘ny number of 
hungry ancillae who feel they can tum the poststo their 
advantage. That perception inevitably leads to savageinfight- 
ing, as the immortal equivalents of middle management tear out 
each others’ throats for a shot at the corner office. While,the 
fighting is rarely overt — a vampire who can't manéferhis 
rivals out of a posting isn’t devious enough to hold it -> it is 
vicious. The casualties can include allies, ghotls¢praperty, 
reputations and precious mortals. Blackmail, seduction and the 
use of the mental Disciplines are all common tactics in this sort 


THe OLD Ones 

Asingle eldercan bea terrifying antagonist fora coterie 
of neonates. It matters little how they first attract his enmity 
— perhaps rivals of his sired them, or he fears their ultimate 
ambitions — but his attentions can provide endless plot 
ideas. His stratagems to injure them can range from the 
blunt (sending his descendants, ghouls or mortal pawns to 
attack the coterie) to the subtle (intriguing against them 
and their patrons) to the monstrous (taking out his wrathon 
their mortal loved ones and allies). He should act through 
ever more powerful servants, raising the level of opposition 
every time the coterie proves equal to his challenge. He may 
even welcome the coterie’s continued survival as an excit- 
ing game to leaven his otherwise dull existence. In the 
meantime the neonates slowly ascend the ladder of power, 
learning about politics and what it takes to maintain one’s 
position in the ever-so-treacherous Camarilla. Should the 
characters achieve a reasonable level of success and power, 
afinal confrontation with the inimical elder is not out of the 
question. In the meantime, however, the elder has served as 
the mover and shaker behind any number of chapters in 
your chronicle by merely staying true to his class andhis fear. 


of struggle, and any Kindred who goes in with a sense of fair play 
is liable to be eliminated from the running very early indeed. 


Tue View FROM THe HILL: ELDERS 
Elders of the Camarilla have achieved dizzying heights of 
power, andthey are deathly afraid of falling. While unlife may 
not be sweet té'the elders, it is precious, and they will go to 
any lengths to avoid risking their immortality. Elders have 
few friends, if any; they see other Kindred as rivals and 
potential ustirpers. They know the temptations that younger 


Kindred feel, having experienced those same urges centuries 


ago. They also know the lengths to which ambitious vampires 
will go, and who the targets of those ambitions are. 

A natural outgtowthofelders’ unnatural paranoia is the 
way in which they treat theifehilder and other, less experi- 
enced vampires. The logic is simple: Younger Kindred who 
afe off-balance and at each’others’ throats have neither the 
‘ume nor the strength to assault their elders. Asa result, elders 
spend endless hours setting pawns, childer and subordinates 
(theirs and other Kindred's) against one another. The endless 
dance is intended to sap the ability of neonates and ancillae 
to rebel against their sires and grandsires, while leaving them 
strong enough to remain useful tools. Maintaining such a 
delicate balance takes skill and centuries of practice; elders 
whodon'tacquire the knack often find themselves diablerized 
or alone in the face of well-prepared opposition. 

Elders loathe ancillae and neonates for what they might 
become; their peers they hate because of what they are. The 
struggle between elders for status, dominion and power never 
ends, and each elder works ceaselessly to undermine her rivals. 
All fear the approach of Gehenna, and seek to fortify them- 
selves against the true Final Nights. For many, such preparation 
includes setting up one’s peers as easier targets for the ravening 
Antediluvians. Other elders prefer to concern themselves with 
the here and now, and see others of their kind as pressing threats 
to their existences. Still others play the game of the Jyhad to 
alleviate ennui, maneuvering against the same rivals for centu- 
ries in order to ensure having something to do every night. 

For more information on using elders, see Chapter Eight 
of this book. 


IN THE BLOOD: SIRES AND CHILDER 

Some of the most bitter conflict the Camarilla has ever 
known has arisen between vampires and those who created 
them. Few Kindred ever asked for the Embrace; even those who 
did desire it often rationalize their longing away. In such a 
situation, it is only natural that a vampire’s resentment arises 
against the one who sentenced him to unlife. “I didn’t ask to be 
Embraced!” is the all-too-common cry ofa neonate who is just 
discovering the downside to his new status. Meanwhile, sires 
see their childer grow in new and unexpected directions, and 
begin to fear them. “How long,” many older Kindred wonder, 
“before he comes seeking my blood?” When the twisted influ- 
ence of the blood bond is added into the equation, it is no 
surprise that too many Kindred share only a lineage and bitter 


TALES OF IMAGNATION AND MisTeRy: STORYTELLING 


187 


hatred with their sires. Much can be done with the story of a 
vampire whose sire no longer trusts him, and who begins 
throwing increasingly deadly obstacles in his path. 


CLAN Versus CLAN 

Conflict is not limited to age or class. The uneasy balance 
between the clans of the Camarilla is difficult to maintain at 
the best of times, and these are hardly the best of times. The 
Ventrue look down on their peers, and make no secret of their 
disdain. The Toreador can’tstand the presence of the Nosferatu, 
while the Sewer Rats revel in dragging the other clansinto the 
muck. So it goes among the clans of the Camarilla, on both the 
grand scale and the immediate one as well. 

It is extremely rare for two clans to go to war, even in so 
limited a scale as a single city. Fighting in the streets between the 
Brujah and the Ventrue is a clear invitation to the Sabbat, after 
all, andasmuch asacity’s assorted vampire populations may hate 
one another, they recognize that if the antitribu march in, 
everyone loses. Instead, theclans (whennotengaged in internecine 
strife of their own) seek to weaken one anothers’ influences and 
relative strengths. If a city’s Brujah benefit from local heavy 
industry, the Ventrue may act in concert to wreck the companies 
who own the plants. Why? Because doing so deprives the Brujah 
of both financial and human resources. When the heavy industry 
dries up, the workers are laid off, organized labor's influence 


decreases, and the Brujah’s ability to marshal strength in the field 
diminishes. Once the Brujah have been deprived of theirsupport, 
the Ventrue can force concessions from them, then import high- 


tech industry to revitalize the city’s economic base and recoup 
their own resources lost in the maneuver. 

Such plans can take decades or even centuries to come to 
fruition, but the clans are patient. The intention, after all, is 
not to wipe out the other clans — allies against the Sabbat are 
still needed, after all — but rather to weaken them and make 
them subordinate. How vicious the inter-clan con‘lict be- 
comes depends on the city and the individual clan members 
involved, but it is never static. Just as individual Kindred jostle 
against one another for relative status, so too do the clans. 

In many cases, conflict between clans in a single setting 
can be traced to the personality conflicts of individual mem- 
bers of the respective clans. As the elders’ hatred grows, they 
draw their childer and their subordinates into the conflict, 
which then spirals out of control. Such petty origins in no way 
diminish the intensity of the hatred that the two sides can 
generate, but the scenario goes a long way toward explaining 
how the Nosferatu and Malkavians can have a grudging 
alliance in one city and be at each others’ throats in the next. 


UNHOLY Appetites: DIABLERIE 
Power is one of the most basic sources of narrative conflict. 
Amongthe Kindred, power is defined by blood. Itis littlewonder, 
then, that some of the fiercest conflicts (and best stories) within 
the Camarilla are spawned by the lust for potent blood. 
Technically, diablerie is condemned by the Camarilla 
exceptin certain unique circumstances (blood hunts, dealing 


with enemies of the sect, etc.). The use of the ability that 
Auspex grants to read auras is supposed to be sufficient to 
flush out diablerists, who are thus condemned by their own 
vital energies. Alas, vampires are no better than mortals at 
legislating morality. Elders spend sleepless days pondering 
who among their childer might be brave enough to attempt 
diablerie. Neonates dwell in terror of stories of elders who can 
only subsist on vampiric vitae. And so it goes, as the spectre 
of vampiric cannibalism infuses every Kindred with fear. 

That’snot tosay the fearis unfounded. The lure of ascending 
generations is a powerful one, and more than one elder has been 
devoured by his ungrateful progeny. Such attempts can take years 
or longer to be completed, and the construction of such (whether 
your players’ coterie is the hunter or prey is up to you) can provide 
an interesting thread to an ongoing chronicle. The situation 
growseven more fascinating if there is evidence that the proposed 
diablerie is tacitly supported by someone high in the city’s power 
structure. Princesdon’talways like todo their own dirty work, and 
the unmistakable evidence of diablerie can be more than enough 
to condemn the prince's catspaws in this affair. 


Story IDEAS 

Stories wherein the core conflict is contained entirely 
within the Camarilla are manifold. The trick is not creating 
such a conflict, but rather winnowing down the potential 
conflicts to a manageable number. For example: 


VLAD AND JULIET 

Conflict between clanscan do any number of intriguing 
things to a previously tight-knit coterie. When two of the 
group’s members’ clans go at it, odds are that someone on 
each side is going to call on the characters to do their clan 
duty. Things get even more problematic if one vampire is 
ordered to “do something” about his opposite number in the 
coterie. At that point, individual loyalty is placed against 
clan loyalty, and the consequences are dire no matter which 
choice the characters make. If the coterie’s Kindred stay 
loyal to their coterie, their progenitors will most likely not be 
amused, and may take drastic measures to bring the errant 
vampires into line. On the other hand, if the characters bow 
to their duty, the coterie may well be rent asunder forever, a 
development that likely has dire consequences for the 
chronicle. Of course, the vampires can always try to fake 
carrying out their orders, but if the deception is discovered, 
the consequences will assuredly be extremely unpleasant. 

Note that this sort of story idea doesn’t hinge on 
romantic love between two characters. A simple respect and 
working relationship between two Kindred is more than 
enough to work from in such instances. Once a vampire has 
been told he needs to sabotage his working partner, he is a 
fool if he doesn’t wonder if that partner has been ordered to 
do the same to him. Suspicion and fear inevitably replace 
trust. The bonds of the coterie are stretched, if not snapped. 
Can the coterie ever recover? It seems unlikely... 


The Guide TO THE Camara 


188 


e The coterie earns the enmity of a slightly older gang of 
Kindred, who see the characters as unwelcome competition 
The older vampires have more skills, more standing in the 
city and a better grasp on their Disciplines. How can the 
neonates survive? 

© The prince’s sheriff has decided that it’s open season 
on neonates, and does his level best to goad the coterie into 
committing actions that will allow him to lower the boom. 
Can the neonates avoid the traps being laid for them, and 
what happens if they don’t? 

e One of the city’s elders decides that the coterie reminds 
her of her first coterie. This isn’t necessarily a good thing, as she 
eventually killed the rest of her companions off, but in the 
meanwhile she takes an unhealthy interest in the neonates’ 


doings, going to far as to arrange “situations” to see how they 
might react, Will the younger Kindred figure out what's going 
on before the elder ups the stakes, or throws her toys away? 

© A member of the coterie has a rival — a jealous ghoul 
who thinks that he should have received the Embrace instead 
of the character. The ghoul is now doing everything in his 
power to rectify the “mistake,” up to and including making 
attemptson the character's life. Unfortunately, the character's 
sire values the ghoul’s services too highly for him to be killed 
out of hand. So how does the character protect herself, and 
what does the rest of her coterie do about it? 

© The city’s keeper of Elysium is removed from her post 
by the primogen council for gross incompetence. Every 
ambitious ancilla in the city immediately begins positioning 
himself to be the next to take the job. How might a coterie of 
ancillae react to this opportunity? Would they throw their 
weight behind one candidate, or would it become every 
Kindred for himself? 

+ A coterie member's sire becomes obsessed with a 
neonate, leading him essentially toabandon his other childer. 
His enemies sense weakness and move in, plucking his 
supporters one by one. Can the coterie convince the elder to 
return hisattention to where it belongs, and can they possibly 
survive long enough to do so? 

© There are new neonates in town — in other words, 
easy pickings. The coterie moves quickly to show these 
whippersnappers where they fit into the pecking order, but 
get a surprise when it turns out the neonates have a powerful 
patron. Can the ancillae avoid offending the neonates’ sup- 
porter, or is it already roo late? Who will end up teaching a 
lesson to whom? 

© The coterie is a collection of relatively experienced 
Kindred, perhaps even the city’s primogen council. The local 
prince, unfortunately, is an incompetent buffoon. How can 
the coterie manage his removal without exposing the city to 
attack? Will a member of the coterie be chosen to replace the 
prince, and if so, what does that do to the fragile bonds 


holding the characters together? 


© The characters are dispossessed elders searching for'a 


new city toclaim. They think they stumble acrossa lucky break 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND MYSTERY:STORYTELLING 
189 


when they find a metropolis that has recently been cleansed by 
a justicar, but other elders have the same idea. The struggle for 
power becomes even deadlier than usual, as neither side has its 
usual machinery of ghouls and childer in place to fight their 
battles for them. Final Death is a very real possibility. 

e Anincidentat Elysium leads to the city’s Brujah being 
disgraced. As there’s a Brujah in the coterie, the other 
members have to decide what to do about their erstwhile 
companion. Do they ignore the matter, hide her until the 
situation blows over or turn on her? And what happens when 
the crisis ends — if it ever does? 

e Twoelders get intoa vicious squabble and draw the rest 
of their respective clans into the fray. While neither clan is 
represented in the characters’ coterie, they are alternately 
recruited, bribed and threatened to pick a side as the battle 
lines are drawn. Which way does the coterie go, or can it stay 
neutral? Can it even afford to do so? 


OTHER FORMSOF CONFLICT 


There's more to conflict as a storytelling tool than just 
bloody constraint. Emotional conflict is just as powerful a 
device, and can make for a more intense roleplaying experi- 
ence than the wildest battle in the streets. The struggle to 
break an unwanted blood bond can be as gripping as the 
struggle to cleanse the Sabbat from the city. The fight to 
remain calm long enough to plot vengeance on the Kindred 
who diablerized a character's sire or lover can be as terrifying 
as facing an angry elder in her haven. 

Vampires are no longer human, but they remember 
being human, to a greater or lesser degree. Some neonates 
might not even recognize the difference, and therein lies 
fertile ground for tragedy. Consider the case of a neonate torn 
froma relatively happy existence. He has loved ones he must 
abandon, but he can’t tear himself away from returning to 
them. Perhaps he breaks the Masquerade, confessing all in an 


So WuHo’sTHE VILLAIN? 

The term “villain” is a relative one when it comes to 
Vampire. After all, the protagonists of the game are 
blood-drinking, unliving corpses raised from the dead to 
feed on the pulsating vitae of the living — not exactly 
your textbook role models. The antagonists you line up 
for your chronicle may not be “bad guys” in the traditional 
sense, because the “heroes” can be pretty damn bad on 
their own. In fact, the “villains” of the chronicle may be 
mortal hunters out to stop the bloodsucking fiends’ rein 
of unholy terror, something that the majority of people 
would probably regard as an admirable goal. 

So bear in mind when you're creating your Vampire 
villains that they may not be all that villainous. Yes, rabid 
Sabbat packs may be far, far worse then your players’ 
characters ever dreamed of being, but antagonists for the 
Kindred come from both ends of the spectrum. 


attempt to earn their sympathy; perhaps he seeks to Embrace 
one orall of them in violation of the Traditions, just so he can 
be with them forever. Stories like this can provide plenty of 
tension and strong roleplaying without necessitating that 
your players reach for their dice every third minute. 


NeMeses AND ANTAGONISTS 


Behind every nefarious plot stands a nefarious plotter. 
While your characters may be the center of your story, they 
need an opposite number, someone against whom they can 
strive and compete. Without an opponent against whom the 
coterie can react, there’s little tension in your chronicle. 
Instead of a foe to overcome, there’s just a series of small 
skirmishes that devolves quickly into boredom. On the other 
hand, if it turns out that the anarchs who trashed the coterie’s 
communal haven is actually a disguised Sabbat pack looking 
to soften up the city, suddenly all of those one-off gunfights 
and back-alley ambushes become part of a pattern. Your 
chronicle becomes more focused. And, by setting up an 
ultimate enemy, perhaps the bishop or cardinal behind the 
assault on the city, you set up the characters’ confrontation 
with that enemy as the natural climax for your chronicle. 

Villains don’t just happen, though. You need to con- 
struct the ultimate nemesis of your chronicle carefully. After 
all, most of your plot developments must flow from him and 
his choices, especially those dealing with the characters. 
With that in mind, you need to start thinking about who your 
characters’ enemy as much, if not more, than what he is. 

It isa fact that no villain worth his salt does things simply 
to be villainous. Even the most sadistic Tzimisce or bad-ass 
Baali has a goal, something he’s trying to accomplish. He has 
a plan, an overriding goal that he wants to achieve, and the 
coterie is merely a minor obstacle in his path to his eventual 
goal. Any actions he takes are not predicated on stopping the 
chronicle’s central characters; they are directed taking care of 
his own business. If the coterie interferes, too bad for them. 


GROUNDWORK 

The first step is to figure out what the prime antagonist 
wants. A host of related questions spring from that one. What 
is he after, and why? What will he do to obtain that goal, and 
how soon must he accomplish it? Does he serve a greater 
power (a higher-up in the Sabbat, or a superior in the 
Inquisition) to whom he must report, and if so, what happens 
if he doesn’t make fast enough progress? Will he bargain? The 
answers to these and other, similar questions provide an 
operational framework for your prime antagonist’s actions. If 
you know how far he’s willing to go and what he's striving for, 
you'll at least havea handle on how he'll react to setbacks and 
triumphs — and what his next move is likely to be. 

You'll also want to figure out what your nemesis is — his 
species, sect, beliefs, powers, authority and so on. A good rule of 
thumb is to take the most prominent features of the players’ 
characters and invert them for the nemesis. If your troupe plays 


The GUIDE 10 THE CAMARILLA 


19 


acoterie of high-Humanity neonates seeking to restore their lost 
Humanity, an aged and amoral Tzimisce with a pack of hungry 
ghouls works well as an antagonist. This approach works on a 
general level as well — if the characters are sneaky, devioussorts, 
setting them up against a brute who relies on sheer force to 
achieve his ends provides both contrast and a challenge. After 
all, if the characters’ usual bag of tricks is suddenly rendered 
ineffective, the coterie will need to try something new — fast — 
or else risk ending up as ash on the wind. 

Also bear in mind that the villain doesn’t necessarily see 
himself asa villain. Perhaps he has idealistic motivationsforhis 
actions. There is always the possibility that your villainis imit 
just for personal gain or power, but there’salso every chance that 
he’s serving what he perceives to be a higher purpose. Allowing 
your nemesis character to believe, honestlyand 
in what he’s doing can add a fine ‘morales ae 
Doing so also cuts down on the amount of 


‘moustachio-twirling 
scenery chewing your villain is likely to do— if he honestly 
‘thingfortheworld, 


believes that killing off the coterie igthe best! 

he’s not likely to indulge in maniacal cackling, insane gloating 
or any of the other stereotypical “villain” behaviors that limit 
his effectiveness and turn him into a cartoon. 


PLAvING THE DART 

It is imperative to remember that your prime antagOnist 
has a personality. He does things for,a-teason. So when'the 
characters thwart one aspect of his plot, don’t just strike back: 
with everything at his disposal. Instead, roleplay him, Get 
inside his head and consider how he’s going to reactnatufally. 
Is this setback a minor annoyance? Or is it time forthe 


Inthemeanting, though, there needstobesomeone onstage. 
Someone needs to be confronting the coterie each session, 
keeping them busy and stoking the flame of their dislike. That’s 
where henchmen come in (or ghouls, as the case may be). 

This approach, which works best when you throw ever- 
more powerful subordinate nemeses at the coterie, draws out 
the characters’ road to the final confrontation. The best way 
to stretch the time between introduction and climax, in 
many cases, is with encounters with the servants and hench- 
men of your villain. After all, it's highly unlikely your main 
lantagonist is going to be doing all of his legwork himself, so 
grant him some hired help. Think about what sort of person 
he is, and what sort of servants he’s likely to have. A Sabbat 
archbishop has packs and other subordinates to turn loose, 
while a hunter with True Faith likely has a flock of true 
believers who just might be willing to die for him. 

The next thing to consider is how the henchmen come 
in ontact with the coterie. Odds are low that they'll wander 


Sup, introduce themselves as The Villain’s Servants, and then 


“proceedito whip out the TEC-9s in best Hong Kong cin- 


hammer to come down? If your villain behaves believably, = 


your plot becomes more believable as a result. [fhe reacts AS 
The Plot Demands, he'll seem contrived, and, eventually, so 
will your chronicle. Let the story follow character, rather 
than the other way around. 

You might even want to consider the archvillain to be 
your character in all of this, unless doing so means that the 
coterie is irrevocably doomed as a result. Otherwise, climb. 
inside his head the way your players hop inside their charac- 
ters, and play him to the hilt. 


HENCHMEN, HENCHWOMEN AND OTHERS 

No good archvillain ever works alone. Even the most 
maniacal madman needs henchmen to run errands, do the 
dirty work, take the fall for plans gone awry, obtain victims 
and so on. More to the point, it doesn’t make sense for you to 
spend hours creating an interesting and well-drawn villain 
only to throw him into a deathmatch with the coterie 
immediately. In a situation like that there’s no sense of 
dramatic tension, and no time for the characters’ dislike of 
the villain to grow to the point where defeating him means 
something to them. If your archvillain appears on the stage 
too soon, he's an obstacle, not an object of hatred. You need 
totake time to stoke the characters’ loathing of their nemesis, 
and that means holding him back until the moment is right. 


ematic fashion. Rather, it makes more sense to have the 


“characters come across the henchmen busy running an un- 
‘palatable errand for their boss (say, staking a friend of the 


coterie) and puta stop to it, and then discover a connection 
to a “higher” power. Of course, that sets the players up in 
‘opposition to your archvillain nicely, and he now has an 
excise tosend servitors of increasing power and importance 
aftetithem. They thwarred his will once, after all, which 
meansithat they need to be disposed of before they become a 
real threat. The closer the characters get to their main 
antagonist, of course, the greater the power and resources of 
the henchmen that said nemesis throws in their way, and the 
greater the challenge that must be overcome each time. 
Don’t make the mistake of having your villain only 
employ one sort6fsubordninate. This is the modern era, after 
all, and diversifieation is the name of the game. Give your 
villain more credit than that — and give your players more of 
a challenge. Vary tactics and approaches. A street gang, a 
ghouled police precinct, a crazed (but Dominated) arsonist, 
blood bound childer —all of these can be part of your villain’s 
arsenal. If the characters never know what to expect next, 
they can’t plan too far ahead — and can’t get complacent. 
You might want to consider henchmen as personalities with 
arelationship to your archvillain as well. Are they just hired thugs 
and bound ghouls, or is there something more? Did the villain send 
someone he cared about to work evil on the coterie? And ifso, how 
will he react to his subordinate’s failure — or death? Making your 
henchmen more well-rounded means that you can spin more 
complete plots off from their failures — and their successes. 


Foes FOR THE SECT 

Some villains are more appropriate than others for a 
Camarilla chronicle. While the Sabbat is the obvious choice, 
it’s not the only one. Consider the following: 


TALES OF IMAGNATION AND MYSTERY:STORYTELLING 


191 


e Other Kindred 

A rival within the sect might be the ultimate enemy for 
the coterie. The struggle for advancement and power in the 
Camarilla can get deadly at the drop ofa hat, and placing your 
villain inside the sect adds interesting complications to the 
coterie’s attempts to strike back. Perhaps the villain is an 
elder who wants the coterie eliminated. Any move the 
characters make against him is going to look bad, and may 
well draw in the rest of the sect to defend the antagonists. On 
the other hand, perhaps the “villain” is a rival coterie or 
individual vampire gunning for power. The players’ charac- 
ters are rivals, and thus they must be eliminated. 

© Mortals 

Most humans who go vampire-hunting have the shelf 
life of a cold beer at a ballgame, which is to say practically 
none at all. Those few who survive, however, get very good 
indeed at what they do. Armed with faith, technology and 
just maybe a few supernatural powers of their own, top-flight 
mortal hunters should be sufficient to put the fear of God — 
literally, in some cases — into any coterie. 

* The Sabbat 

The default enemy fora Camarilla game is, of course, the 
Sabbat. Setting up your ultimate villain as a higher-up in the 
Sabbat allows you to throw endless waves of neonates and 
angry packs at the coterie, raising the stakes each time. If the 
coterie simply tries to fend off each attack, eventually they'll 
be overwhelmed. The only choices they have are to retreat, 
or to try to press forward and find their true enemy.. 


DEATH 


While death may be the end of all things for an individual, 
it opens up new doorways and opportunities in a Camarilla 
chronicle. When one of the Kindred meets the Final Death, 
suddenly her ghouls are masterless, her holdings are up for grabs 
and her position in the city’s hierarchy is wide open. All of these 
spell opportunity for a coterie of ambitious young vampires. 


THe GREAT CHAIN OF FEEDING 

One of the beauties of Vampire: The Masquerade is 
that no matter how powerful the characters get or their 
rivals might be, there’s always someone more powerful 
squatting above them on the food chain. If your coterie 
gets rid of your hand-crafted villain too quickly, remem- 
ber that someone had to sire him —and that sire may not 
be too happy about the way things turned out. You don’t 
want to work your way up the ladder of generations too 
quickly, lest you end up seemingly forced to trump all- 
powerful player characters with Caine. (Note: If your 
chronicle gets to this point, scrap it and start over. Beings 
of such power are so far removed from human concerns 
that roleplaying them becomesa theoretical exercise, not 
a game.) but remember that you always have a bigger 
hammer at your disposal. 


Then again, the coterie may not be the only ones vying 
for the deceased’s property and titles. The creation of a 
sudden vacuum in the city’s power structure can draw all 
those around it into conflict, if not open war. Just because one 
of your players’ characters wants to take over for a recently 
deceased scourge or sheriff doesn’t mean that he’s going to 
pull it off — and the competition for the job can be deadly. 


DEATHASA 
STORYTELLING TOOL 


Some storytellers shy away from using the Final Death in 
their chronicles. Killing a character off is rather permanent, 
after all; once you scatter someone's ashes on the wind, odds 
are she’s gone forever. That sort of permanence can be scary, 
as few Storytellers want to lose the services of a favorite 
character ad infinitum. 

Others see the death of a Storyteller character as some- 
thing to be gotten over with quickly. The victim dies, his 
ashes are swept up, and the universe rolls along with one less 
vampire in it. Doing so avoids messy complications, but it 
robs the Storyteller of one of the most versatile tools in her 
arsenal — the power of life and death. 

The ability and willingness to kill off characters, even 
important ones, is extremely useful to a good Storyteller. By 
sending a vampire (or even a familiar mortal or ghoul) into 
the hereafter, you establish that death isa real and potent part 
of your world. The death of a character, even a minor one, 
demonstrates that there are consequences to foolish actions, 
and that the price of failure is both very real and very high. 
Perhaps most importantly, once you demonstrate that you are 
willing to kill offany character, from mortal to primogen, the 
characters know that no one is safe — not even them. 


HKICKSTARTING PLOT 

The death of a Storyteller character can get a story 
rolling in any number of ways. Any vampire, whether of high 
status or low, has a place in the Camarilla. Killing that 
vampire leaves a vacancy in that place, and starts all of the 
other Kindred of the city scurrying around it. If the vampire 
had holdings, ghouls or other possessions of value, the vul- 
tures immediately start to circle, seeking to profit from his 
death. Friends of the deceased tighten their defenses, in case 
they're next on the hit list. Enemies of the victim, fearful of 
being accused, ready their alibis and seek to discredit those 
who might accuse them. Rumors of diablerie or Sabbat 
infiltration might well fly. 

From all this chaos, strong plots can arise. Consider: 

The coterie might be assigned by the prince or sheriff 
to uncover the murderer. If they do so, they can expect an 
impressive reward. If they fail, they just might become the 
next victims. Then again, what if someone — perhaps even 
the prince — doesn’t really want them to succeed? 

o The deceased held a position of some prominence in 
the city, and now that office is vacant. Does a member of the 


The Gune T0 Tat CaMARLLA 


192 


coterie think she can take over that role? What rivals does she 
have for the title, and how far will they go to seize it? What 
about the rest of the coterie, which may be linked to her 
ambition whether they want to be or not? And what chal- 
lenges will the prince set her and her rival? 

© The characters fall under suspicion of having mur- 
dered another Kindred. The prince gives them 48 hours to 
clear themselves, or else face a blood hunt. Can they find the 
real murderer, or at least prove themselves innocent? Why 
was the blame cast on them in the first place, and who is 
responsible for framing them? Worst of all, what if one of the 
characters did commit the murder, a possibility that can 
never be overlooked? 


DEATH OF A CHARACTER 

Few players enjoy seeing their characters reduced to 
ashes. The reaction is understandable; hours, if not months or 
years, have been poured into that character, and no one 
wants to lose that kind of investment cavalierly. On the other 
hand, if player's characters are rendered immune to the 
ultimate penalty, game balance can suffer. A Storyteller who 
refuses to make characters pay the price for foolish actions 
rapidly finds himself running a game wherein vampires regu- 
larly tempt fate because they know that, in the end, they are 
actually completely safe. That knowledge drains much of the 
tension from a good Vampire chronicle. 

On the other hand, wiping out characters arbitrarily or 
todemonstrate who’s really in charge can be just as damaging. 
Players will quickly learn to avoid a chronicle wherein their 
carefully crafted characters are liable to be exterminated at 


Storyteller whim. In the end, balance is necessary. Players 
t that sometimes the metaphorical 
dragon wins, and Storytellers should make sure not to use the 
ultimate penalty unless the situation absolutely demands it. 


should be aware of the fa 


CONSEQUENCES 


For every action, there isan equal and opposite reaction. 
In similar fashion, for every action a vampire takes, there is a 
consequence. Nothing happens in the Camarilla without 
something else being affected. A mortal is killed in a feeding? 
Perhaps his loved ones start supporting hunters. Maybe he 
was targeted for the Embrace by an elder who, deprived of her 
childe, seeks vengeance. Then again, the killing might break 
the M: 
ties after the unfortunate murderer. 

The point is that everything in a Camarilla city is 
connected. Every action impacts the plans, plots and wishes 
of other Kindred, and they will react as a result. Vampires are 
not used to being thwarted or balked, and take steps to punish 
those who do so. Anything the characters do, from perform- 
ing a favor for another Kindred to killing offa favorite childe, 
has immediate and profound consequences in the world of 
the Camarilla. Your players should be aware of this, and you 


asquerade, sending both mortal and immortal authori- 


should be, too. 


Preventative Measures 

There are some steps you can take to make sure that 
the death of a character doesn’t cause out-of-game hard 
feelings in your roleplaying group. 

© Warn your players at the start of the chronicle 
that character death is a real possibility, and reiterate 
that warning periodically. 

e When a character dies, make sure the killing 
doesn’t look vengeful. If the character has at least a small 
chance of escape, the player usually feels better about 
things. On the other hand, pulling a dozen Brujah 
bruisers out of the woodwork to finish the job of the first 
50 you sicced on the character reeks of a personal 
vendetta, and makes for a bad situation. 

¢ If a character’s death seems likely or nigh-inevi- 
table, talk with the player about it and get her input. 
Perhaps the character can go out in spectacular or heroic 
fashion, sacrificing herself to save the city. 

e Once a character dies, take some time to chat 
things over with the deceased's player. Let him know 
that you still want him in the group; it’s just that his 
character is gone. On the other hand, don’tuse character 
death as a way of letting a player know you want him 
gone. The mutilating effect this sort of thing has on your 
plot thoroughly wrecks the game for your other players. 

¢ Ifone player's character kills another, don’t allow 
a vendetta to start. Make sure that there are no hard 
feelings between the players, and make sure that the new 
character that gets brought in isn’t gunning for the old 
one’s murderer “just as a coincidence.” 


GettinG Away Win It 

In truth, letting your characters know that there are 
repercussions to their actions is one of the most important 
things you can do as a Storyteller. If the coterie breaks the 
Masquerade with abandon and nothing happens to them, 
then they're not going to worry about the Masquerade, At 
that point, one of the tentpegs of your chronicle’s tension gets 
uprooted. Instead, if the characters do something “wrong” or 
“foolish,” make sure they pay for it. That doesn’t mean that 
you should automatically waste every vampire who makes a 
minor misstep. Rather, it means that if the characters break 
the Masquerade, hunters or policemen should come sniffing 
around. They may not find the coterie, but they can make life 
interesting fora while. By the same token, breaking one of the 
Traditions should bring down the ire of the local prince. If the 
prince doesn’t come down on characters who break his laws, 
then he stops being an authority figure and becomes a 
cartoon. By making certain to show your players that their 
characters will be held accountable for what they do, you 
work to maintain the integrity of both your characters and 
your chronicle. 


TALES OF IMAGINATION AND Mysteny:STORYTELUING 


193 


If you do not raise your eyes, you will think you are the 


highest point 


— Antonio Porchia, Voces 


The Camarilla is not a homogenous body. There are 
stratifications and classifications, ranks and hierarchies. And, 
most importantly, there are those who are on the inside, 
those who are on the outside, and those who straddle the 
boundary as best they can. 

For the Camarilla does not have clearly defined bound- 
aries. The shadowy elders who stalk the salons and EI 
are officially of the sect, but what about the willfully rebelling 
anarchs (so many of whom secretly return to the fold)? How 
about the ghouls who serve the organization butstill have not 
tasted death or the Embrace? And what of the silent, eter- 
nally watchful Inconnu? What relation do they have to the 
keepers of the Masquerade? 

Good questions, all. Alas that the answers are as shad- 
owy as those who hold them. 


Un Lire AMONG THE ANARCHS 
From sunset on, I feel the troubles lining up to hit me 
There's smoke on the 
sound of the car horns, Children’s voices echo off concrete warm 
with the last sun of summer. The voices have the flat, empty 
sound of shouts in a cement tunnel; of words yelled into the angry 
green and yellow of a brewing summer storm. There’s bad juju 


ening wind and an extra-harsh tone to the 


coming, no doubt 


Ipullmyjacketaroundme andkeepmy headdown, hoping. Maybe 
ifl keepalow profile, the troubles will just pass me by. I spend the evening 
doubling back and walking into the wind, trying to keep myself ahead of 
the bad karma, to slip the sad-luck trap 1 can feel closing around my leg 
By nine o'clock I realize 1 could never be so lucky. 1 just pick a spot and 
let the bad luck catch up. It takes its own sweet time to do so 

They come for me in the restaurant, just four men in cheap, 
conservative suits they're not comfortable wearing. They come in 
and talk quietly to the maitre'd, who begins ignoring me with a 
visible determination. One of them is Kindred; I can see he's got 
asnow-pale orange aura with streaks of blue. The other three are 
his ghouls, I guess. Their auras are both a tinge of violet that 
quavers like white heat. Of course they've come for me dressed as 
the police. Maybe the ghouls really are cops on their day job — 
who cares? The Lick and one of the ghouls stay at the door, the 
other two come out to the table to collect me 

Halfway to the table, they realize I know they're there. They 
start catching my eyes, then tossing ugly little strong-man’s smiles 
back and forth. One pops his knuckles and smiles at me. My hand 
reaches formy steak knife almost on its own, and the bad mojo feelings 
circle like crows around my head, raucous laughter spiraling up into 
the night. Laughing at poor, failed, miserable me, dead and alone, 
brought to bay behind tempered glass and civility in the heart of the 
asphalt jungle 


Anus, Enemies AND OTHERS 


195 


I can feel the Beast rising in me as my body tenses and the 
blood inside me ebbs and shrinks away. Like a burning train 
shooting down a tunnel toward some impossibly bright light, like 
an orgasm of anger and hunger, it is rising toward the light. I can’t 
let that happen here. 

1 show them the knife, and they slow, become more serious 
They spread out, their eyes on the knife. Watch the knife. Look 
atit. Pay attention to the knife. The other diners are begmning to 
notice. Keep watching the knife. My every hair is standingon end, 
and I strap down the Hunger with iron bands. I break forin, knife 
in hand, and one of them steps in front of me. He grabs the hand 
that holds the knife and tries to tackle me. 

My claws are out. I swipe at his restraining wrist, and he 
yelps, grasping the mangled mess to his chest. Blood pours out 
from between his fingers (oh God blood oh God not now), and 
T wave the table knife in a convenient excuse. My hip sends a table 
spinning across the room as | sprint for the kitchen, for the fire 
door that a 20nothing dishwasher used to sneak through on break 
so she could smoke cigarettes she'll never need again. They trail 
behind me shouting, “Stop! Police! Stop or we'll shoot!” But I 
know they won't, not here, shooting would mean too many 
questions, and hitting me would mean even more; how can bullets 
stop the dead? 

I tear blindly up the steps, scrabbling on all fours, sprawling 
to bark shins that never bruise. Then I'm smashing through the 
fire door and onto the roof. The blinding, perfect beauty of the 
night strikes me, and I let my purse drop to my side. The moon is 
a hairline crescent, a sickle on the horizon, and cerement-thin 
clouds are painted on the city's gray night sky. If I could breathe 
then this scene, seen from this perfect eyrie, would leave me 
breathless. I turn and bring the gun out of my purse 

I can hear them down there, on the steps, creeping up like 
thieves. Their breathing is harsh, and the leather of their shoes grinds 
against the concrete treads of the fire stairs. They're listening to me 
listen to them. Behind and beyond me, the sussuruss of the city gains 
dozens of identities — car doors, sirens, tires on pavement and 
breaking glass. A thousand smells, a thousand sounds, and thou- 
sand shades of black and sodium-arc orange 

And then I let it all slip away, and fire the revolver into the 
fire stairs. One of the ghouls shrieks, and half a minute later, a 
voice comes up from below. “He isn’t angry with you, Sarah. 
That's why he sent us — to tell you it was okay. He knew you'd 
come back. He wants you to know he loves you.” 

He's an emissary from my sire, then. Or maybe just the local 
scourge trying words to slow me down long enough for him to grab 
me. The Kindred’s voice is honey, as deep as still water, a lover's 
caress. A lying lover. An adulterous, conniving lover, but one 
with hands that make you come back even though you krow what 
going back will mean. Like biting into a warm, ripe plum —warm 
and sweet like blood on the tongue. Like blood on the tongue, a 
voice you could just sit and listen to for hours. I shake my head and 
blink. Will I go back? No — I remember. 

The hours of his snuffling professions of etemal amour had 
listened to. How many pleas to share blood had there been; first 


romantic, then demanding, then violent? I didn't ask for him to 
stalk me for six months and murder me in the name of his love. 
When he killed me, he didn’t even know my name. Let him find 
some other victim to be his edelweiss, some more willing actress 
to conscript as the leading lady in his perpetual tragedy. Whatever 
he paid this emissary, it was wasted. I know I'll never go back. 1 
take the first few crunching steps on the roof and shut the wreck 
of the fire door behind me. Distantly, I can hear the ghouls start 
to move again. 

1 tumn to the edge of the building and the perfection of the city 
night. I hear them walking up the stairs now, calm and unworvied. 
1 run, and the Beast surges to run with me, invincible. I leap, a 
black arrow against the gray night sky. The Beast springs with me, 
full of the joy at the night and the black glee of the hunt. 

The change comes over me as I plummet through the night — 
my corpse a frigid falling star from the black expanses of the grave. 
My arms and fingers stretch, an ecstatic agony, while the world 
grows huge around me. The colors fade to grays, and I stretch my 
wings to the embrace the city, with her great black vistas and 
soaring towers of heat from the gritty concrete below. Dead 
muscles tense, driving me through the darkness that is my home 

1 will never love him for this. Ever. 

But one day, I think that I may leam to love myself. 


WHO ARETHE ANARCHS? 


Vampiric society is stifling in a way that mortals cannot 
even imagine — the deck is loaded a dozen different ways 
against change. Increasing age doesn’t bring encroaching 

nility to the Kindred, but increasing power. Barring Ama- 
ranth, the average vampire will neversurpasshersire, because 
the Curse of Caine diminishes in potence with every genera- 
tion. From generations-removed sires come orders to perform 
tasks the elders cannot be bothered to dirty their hands with. 
Inevitably, the most arduous and repulsive tasks pass down 
the generations to the youngest progeny. To many neonates, 
the gift of immortality seems to be little more than slavery at 
an eternity of menial labor. 

In early nights, rebellious childer generally fled their sires’ 
clutches to some remote location where they immediately set 
up shop perpetuating the cycle they had so recently escaped. 
Thus did the Children of Caine come to cover the world to its 
remotest corners. In modern times, however, every corner of 

smaller, the options 
vay Kindred grow fewer and fewer. 

It was after the fall of the Western Roman Empire that 
Kindred overpopulation first became a serious issue in Europe 
and Asia Minor. For the first time, vampires who didn’t like 
where they were living were unable to drift away and find a 
new home (or die trying — usually at the claws of a passing 
Lupine). Unwilling to eschew the cities, with their easy 
feeding and diversions from the potentially deadly ennui of 
centuries, Kindred were forced to form a real society. Inevi- 
tably, that society was based on the coercive power of elders 
over their progeny. 


The Gude To THE CaMARLLA 


196 


Just as inevitably, this coercion bred resentment, hate 
ind rebellion among the ancillae. After centuries of sim- 
mering discontent, the dam broke in what came to be 
known as the Anarch Revolt. For decades, vampiric soci- 


ety was awash in bloodshed and chaos, as the young set 


upon the old in search of freedom and potent vitae. For 


good or for ill, there are few records of the revolt. Most 
Kindred who survived the era are unwilling to talk about 
the chaos that culminated in the Inquisition and the 
formation of the sects; most of those who survived lost 
friends and paramours. 

But those who don’t know history are doomed to repeat 
it, and with few survivors of the Anarch Revolt willing to 
teach their lessons, an entire generation of Kindred is stalking 
the nights, ignorant of what has gone before. The anarchs of 
today are the distant descendants of those long: rebels, 
ignorant of their heritage even as they rush blindly down 
their forefathers’ path. 


THe MAKING OF AN ANARCH 


While worried elders and uninformed neonates talk 
about the “the Anarch Movement,” anarchs are mostly just 
anarchic. There areas many different kinds of anarch as there 
are Kindred sick of being used as pawns, catspaws and menial 
laborers by their elders. Even so, the modem anarch isa farcry 


from the revolutionary firebrands who shattered the world of 


the Kindred during the Revolt. Today, the anarchs are almost 
an institution in the Camarilla. 

While it’s hardly a universal occurrence, running away 
fromone’s vampire’s city of Embrace isa fairly common event 
in the lives of young Kindred. The flight usually occurs 
between 10 and 30 years after the Embrace, often after an 
extended (two- to five-year) depression. This sort of lengthy 
funk is jokingly referred to as the “Terrible Twenties” by 
ancillae who have seen it all before, but there's nothing funny 
about it toa neonate who's just suffered through as many years 
of servitude as she lived before the Embrace 

Most sires hold a neonate sub stragulum for between five 
and 10 years after the Embrace. When her sire isn’t using her 
asa menial servant or ignoring her, a neonate is taught about 
life among the Kindred, usually via methods old enough to 
include ‘reciting their lessons’. After a decade or two of this, 
the one thing that a neonate usually wants is out 

The average Kindred who “goes anarch” usually flees 
Kindred society for the open road, the unspoiled wilderness 
or some other imagined utopia between six months and two 
years after presentation. Some sires go to great lengths to 
prevent their progeny from escaping, but even the most 
closely supervised progeny can find a chance to escape if he 
works at it. After presentation, the neonate is considered 
responsible for his own actions and capable of upholding the 


Masquerade on his own, so there is no reason for anyone but 


ALus, Enemies AnD OTHERS 


197 


a sire and his ghouls to pursue an escapee. Experience has 
proven that chaining one’s progeny up in the basement is 
generally a counterproductive strategy for dealing with radi- 
cal impulses. Exposure to fire, mutilation and excruciating 
torture, while used extensively, have also proven ineffective. 
All of these methods of coercion result in progeny who are 
not only unproductive, but who are resentful as well. 
Given that the average city’s politics are a hothouse of 
Byzantine intrigue, bloodthirsty and vengeful offspring can be 
a serious liability. Progeny with unpopular sires may acquire 
their master's enemies’ assistance in escaping. Even blood 
bound progeny can eventually break free of their regnants. 
While there are a few reactionaries and control addicts who 
justdon’tget the idea, sires who see their progeny slipping away 
usually just let them go; a childe is not worth suffering the Final 
Death over, and in the end, most of them come back anyway. 


THe ANARCH 
SUBCULTURE 


WuHo Are THEY?’ 


Many of the neonates who take to their heels find them- 
selves part of the anarch subculture — a nomadic society of 
Kindred who range far and wide across the highways and 
byways of America. The major strongholds of this mobile 
society run up and down the East and West Coasts, along the 
Boston-Atlanta and San Diego-Seattle metropolitan axes. 

The anarch subculture is composed of vampires who 
have fled the influence of their sires. These rebels are often 
called Lost Boys, either in reference to Peter Pan’s band of 
runaways or the movie of the same name. While some flee 
before their presentation (or are never educated in the ways 
of the Kindred at all), most anarchs usually run after having 
been presented to their prince and released by their sires. 
Those unfamiliar with Kindred society usually don’t have 
enough contact with other Kindred to find the anarchs, 
however some Caitiff fall into the anarch lifestyle by coinci- 
dence, fortuitous or otherwise. 

While the stereotypical member of the anarch subcul- 
ture is a Camarilla Brujah sired after 1900, there is an 
immense variety of Kindred involved with the anarchs. 
Ancient vampires in mufti trying to adapt to modern culture 
rub elbows with young vampires from non-Camarilla blood- 
lines seeking to escape their own insular little hells. Joining 
the anarchs is attractive to any vampire seeking to break out 
of the restrictions of his sect without the shovel parties, fire 
dancing and pack life implicit to Sabbat membership. 

Anarch culture also makes an excellent place for vam- 
pires interested in establishing new lives for less legitimate 
reasons; Inconnu Monitors and Sabbat scouts mingle with 
Assamite hitmen and renegade Setites on the lam. Using the 
anarchs as an underground railroad isn’t entirely risk-free — 
many archons also run with the anarchs part-time, looking 


for just such undesirables. Also, just because the anarchs ride 
motorcycles and eschew Armani suits doesn’t make them 
stupid. The sort of rough self-policing that occurs among the 
anarchs is just as effective as the formal sentences of a prince, 
and (as ways to die go) much less dignified. 


How Do Tey Survive? 

...all Agents defect, and all Resisters sell out... 

— William S. Burroughs, Naked Lunch 

The young Kindred of the anarch subculture are like the 
frontiersmen of old or the bikers of the modern era — ranging 
far and wide across the land, and occasionally gathering 
together for celebrations that would be legend if word of them 
ever reached the mortal world. Anarchs that fall in with these 
modern nomads usually take up their wandering lifestyle, 
keeping a few regular havens (usually maintained by ghouls) 
but otherwise following an irregular “circuit” of territory with 
no set schedule. The amount of ground that a young anarch 
pack covers in the modern era can be astonishing. 

Anarchs become more territorial as they grow older. The 
risk-takers die off, and the territorial nature of the Kindred 
begins to set in by the end of the first century of unlife. 
Anarch ancillae usually cut back the territory they “claim” to 
avoid threats too large to deal with and areas difficult to 
traverse without serious risk. As the size of their territory 
decreases, the anarchs naturally begin to take its protection 
more and more seriously, and that means interacting with the 
neighborhood power structures. Even if the anarchs claim 
their territory by burning out the havens of the local Sabbat 
packs, they still need allies against the inevitable retaliation. 
Eventually, there isa point that the anarchs reach where they 


Snover Parties Warring To Happen 

A shovel party is slang for the Sabbat initiation, 
where's the initiate is buried and left todig his way out of the 
grave. A lotofanarchs, whether they know itornot,areripe © 
for Sabbat recruiting teams. Many of the anarchs who end 
up in the Sabbat are actually looking to join, whether they 
know it or not. Most of these willing victims are on the run 
from unbearable blood bonds and looking fora way out, and 
either ignorantof Sabbatinitiation rituals or beyond caring. 
Others are just of the mindset that makes the Sabbat seem 
attractive. The anarch subculture, by and large, is “tespon- 
sible,” at least by Camarilla standards. Its members seek to 
enjoy their immortality and their freedom; they reject 
Kindred society to enjoy their situation. A shovel party | 
waiting to happen rejects Kindred society in order to enjoy 
hisstate. He wantsto feed when he wants, use his Disciplines 
when he pleases, and generally assert his supernatural 
superiority over the humans he once stood among. If he 
meets a Sabbat pack that’s taking recruits first, he gets to 
join the Sabbat. If he meets an archon or an angry prince 
first, he gets to be a dead anarch. 


The GUIDE 10 THE CAMARILLA 


198 


are no longer on the outside of the tent pissing in, but on the 
inside pissing out. In the end, many even return to the city of 
their Embrace, where their sires have been patiently awaiting 
their return; after all, what is a century, really? 
Just as not every anarch becomes a motorcycle-riding woah dae 
nomad, not every nomad socializes into Camarilla society - : 4 
1 lot of anarchs just die. The “live hard, die young” ethos of the — ge —_ 
subculture means that by definition a lot of anarchsdon’t make K) 
it out as anything but ash. An anarch who gets a serious rip in E 
her body bag and doesn't realize it in time will be just another 
burned-out car along the roadside. No amount of attitude can 
help a neonate who walks into the wrong place at the wrong 
time and meetsa Sabbat pack coming in the opposite direction, 
or whose encounter with a Lupine gas station attendant results 
in an oil change straight to oblivion, Other anarchs end up 
adapting to the traveling life and become as static the Kindred 
society they oppose — trapped on the cutting edge of night, 
they ride the highways, too old to rock and roll, and too young 
to die forever. These Flying Dutchmen in black leather and 
chrome are both the heart of the anarch subculture and the 
exceptions to its rules. Most wandering anarchs have usually 
either returned to Kindred society or met the Final Death by 
the end of their first century of unlife. 


FASHION AND MANNERS 


The anarchs are generally envisioned as rude, unwashed 
brutes, roving the countryside on motorcycles and flagrantly 
disregarding the Masquerade. This is far from the truth 
Anarchs are very fashion-conscious. Like any Kindred, 
average anarch would like to spend the rest of eternity 
looking good, if at all possible. Even more than that, the 
typical anarch owns little more than what she can carry on a 
bike or in the trunk of a car — her personal possessions are 
one of the few ways she can demonstrate her individual 
identity and display status. While the basics of anarch style 
are often rooted in motorcycle fashion, its expression differs 
considerably between the coasts. Also, like all nomad cul- 
tures, anarchs are very conscious of their manners and 
behavior. Far from possessing the stratospheric wealth of 
some Camarilla Kindred, most anarchs are hard-pressed to 
make ends meet. Often hard up and isolated with no allies 
other than their fellow rebels, the anarchs are remarkably 
careful about hospitality 


East COAST FASHION 

East Coast anarch styles are very elaborate. The typical 
Eastern anarch wears jeans, sometimes bloused into combat 
boots. Shirtsare button-down, and while anarchsclaim thatsilk 
is where it’s at, most simply can’t afford it. (The material doesn’t 
take the rigors of the road well, either, and so much of “standard 


anarch fashion” is honored more in the breach than in the 
observance.) A cowboy hat (usually black) and standard short 
motorcycle jackets are the rule, with each jacket painstakingly 
worked into an original pattem of paint and studs. The jacket, 
boots, blue jeans, and stud-and-paint work is the real core of 


Aus, Enemies ano Omer 
19 


Eastern style — most style-conscious anarchs have the three 
key components custom-made for each individual outfit 
Eastern hair isoften worn in elaborate beaded dreadlocks, 
or else shaved off entirely. In the case of beaded dreadlocks, 
the thinner the braid the better. If the anarch’s head is 
shaved, it is generally decorated with elaborate patterns 
drawn in permanent marker (a technique which works much 
better on vampires than on mortals). Each night, after he 
wakes up, a bald anarch clips and shaves his head, then has a 
friend touch up any faded spots in the design. Tattoos applied 
post mortem have a nasty habit of spitting the ink out of the a 
vampire’s unliving flesh, but those the Kindred got while si 
alive he’s stuck with forever. (And no, laser surgery doesn’t WS 
work on the unliving — somehow, the design regenerates.) Y 


Piercing is uncommon in the East, and seen as a very \ 


“mortal” thing to do. Sunglasses, on those rare occasions 
when they are worn (usually to hide the effects of one too 
many frenzies on a Gangrel), are always mirrored. 

Pistols are often chrome, at least among very young 
anarchs, and are usually short-barreled large-caliber revolvers. 
Cleavers and axes are cool, knives and clubs are not. Most 
anarchs carry one or more hoglegs (double-barreled sawed-off 
shotguns witha pistol grip) in addition to their pistols. The “pig 
knuckles” are intended for dealing with Lupines, and the shells 
are generally hand-loaded with cut-up bits of silver jewelry 

Traditional American and European bikes are favored 
over Japanese models — Goldwings, Nortons and Harley 
Davidsons (stolen, of course) predominate. Most of the bikes 
are modified for touring, with outsized fuel tanks, improved 
suspensions, stowage and more comfortable seats. Cars (par 
ticularly sedans) are common, but uncool — they just don’t 
have the carefree mystique of cycles. Well-heeled packs of 


anarchs often have a number of bikes and an RV (usually 
driven by a ghoul — the poor bastard driving the RV is in for 
agreat deal of verbal abuse if he’s Kindred) for more comfort 


able sleeping accommodations. 


West Coast FASHION 


NW 
N 
A 


West Coast style is distinctly different than the East Coast 
Where East Coast style is elaborate, individualistic and almost 
elegant, West Coast style is uniform, hard-edged and flamboyant 
of the wearer's unearthly endurance. West Coast Kindred use the 
word ausgezeichnet (German for “outstanding!” or “great!”) to 
describe someone who is apotheotic of their fashion tastes, and 
being ausgezeichnet is a way of life as much as a way of dress. 

A West Coast anarch starts from the ground up, and armored 
motorcycle boots are a must. The more chrome armor the better, 
and bootsare traditionally decorated with chains, spurs, rowles, tap 
cleats and whatever else the Kindred can find that’s chrome and 
displays ausgezeichnet attitude. Pants are either leather or leather- 
faced jeans, and a stem black belt and chain wallet are de rigeur 
evena vampire doesn't want to lose his ready cash orall theskinon 
his ass if he wipes out at 80 mph. Shirts are usually thick, also for 
protection in case of crashes. Vests are also common, sometimes 
with a long-fobbed silver pocketwatch in the watch pocket. 


The Guine To THe CaMARILLA 
200 


West Coast anarchs who like to advertise their status 
favor winter-wear leather dusters in all seasons, usually either 
in brown suede or black leather; more subtle ones tend to shy 
away from stereotype. Anything above the mid-calf is far too 
short, and ankle-length is best. Matching piercings with 


THe ANARCH FREE STATE 

On December 21, 1944, Jeremy MacNeil and his 
fellow members of the Revolutionary Council began their 
campaign to overthrow Don Sebastian, the prince of Los 
Angeles. Their revolution was triggered by a long series of 
suppressions and attacks against anarchs and other young 
Kindred, culminating in an episode where MacNeil was 
seized and beaten by Kindred loyal to the Don in front of 
anumber of other Brujah. By the morning of December 23, 
the issue had been decided, and the prince and primogen 
of the city of Los Angeles were no more. A manifesto 
known as the Status Perfectus was issued by the revolution- 
ary council, essentially proclaiming every Kindred’s right 
to freedom and independence, and affirming the Kindred 
of the newborn anarch free state’s devotion to the goals of 
Kindred liberty. The revolutionary council then disbanded. 

The Camarilla braced itself, waiting for the outbreak 
of a Terror in the fashion of the French Revolution, or 
another episode of the Anarch Revolt. Anarchs around 
the world cheered, hoping that at least there would be a 
land of freedom and equality for them as well. Both groups 
were disappointed. 

Today, Los Angeles is an overpopulated hive of 
anarch gangs vying for turf. Until recently, the entire city 
was plagued by the depredations of the late Justicar 
Petrodon’s archons. Even now, the only truly safe area of 
the town is the so-called Barony of Angels (mortal 
downtown Los Angeles), which Jeremy MacNeil protects 
as his own personal demesne. Those unable to survive in 
the gangland communities congregate in the Barony, 
where MacNeil allows any Kindred to feed, so longas they 
keep the Masquerade. 

Even these areas are no longer safe. Recently, a 
number of Cathayans have become active in the city. A 
group of Chinese kuei-jin who call themselves the Flatbush 
and Stockton Posse have begun to tussle with the Crypt’s 
Sons over the Los Angeles wholesale heroin market. So 
far, MacNeil has recognized the sovereignty of the Chi- 
nese tong, but the peace is fragile. Sooner or later, the 
location of Chinatown will force MacNeil to take a stand 
on the warfare between the Posse and the Crypt’s Sons. In 
the meantime, MacNeil has recommended that all Kin- 
dred in the Barony of Angels strictly avoid Little Tokyo. 
It seems, however, as if more Chinese kuei-jin and their 
Triad soldiers arrive each night, and the anarchs of the 
Free State are beginning to wonder if perhaps these new 
arrivals are not the outriders of a foreign invasion. 


chrome and hematite hardware isa mark of distinction. Hair, 
however short, is brushed back and sprayed into immobility. 
Those with long hair generally either let the result fall down 
their back in waves or else wear a single ponytail. Those with 
long, kinky hair wear it back in a ponytail of thin, undeco- 
rated braids. Hats are never worn, nor are motorcycle helmets. 

Stylish pistols are either blued or matte finished; auto- 
matics predominate, and handguns are carried and used in 
pairs by those who can afford them. Because of the quality of 
rigs available, under-the-shoulder carries are the rule. .40 
S&W, .45 ACP and .44 magnum are the preferred pistol 
calibers. Carbines of matching caliber are usually carried in 
sheaths on the anarch’s bike. Blades and chains are cool, 
imprecise or unwieldy weapons are not — ausgezeichnet is fast 
and fluid, not slow or brutal. 

Bikes must be two things — fast and black. Japanese 
bikes, particularly Kawasaki and Yamaha, are the machines of 
choice for Western anarchs. Racing bikes don’t modify well 
for touring, 
the northern end of the San Diego-Seattle metropolitan axis 


nd so there are a number of “Lupine Alleys” on 


where fuel issues make it easy for werewolves to ambush 
traveling anarchs. Most anarchs rely on speed, ballsand plain 
old luck to get through these areas safely 


ANARCH MANNERS, 

While anarch fashion changes trom location to location, 
there is a certain code of behavior an anarch anywhere is 
expected to follow. Just as every fledgling is taught the 
Traditions, each anarch is taught the rules of the road. 
Anarchs are a lot less forgiving about breaches of the rules 
than princes are — the line between undeath and Final 


Death is too thin for much in the way of politics when you're 
livingon the open road. The rules of the road carry from place 
to place, but can be summarized as follows. 


* Don’t Rub Another Man’s Rhubarb 


Also called “Don't Shit Where You Eat.” What little an 
anarch has is his, and his fellows should treat it with the 
respect it deserves. Don't feed around a fellow anarch’s crash 
pads. Be polite to other anarchs’ sucks. If you by some chance 
run into someone's mortal relatives, be cool and act like a 
gentleman (or lady, as the case may be). Don’t be an incon- 
siderate guest — help out around a crash pad as much as you 
e quietly in the night if you think you're being 
aburden. In general, follow the Golden Rule. City Licks can 
fuck each other over, but out of the highway, everyone needs 
to 


can, and lea 


be able to depend on one another. 

© We're All In This Together 

If you see an anarch in trouble, it’s your solemn duty to 
help him out. Even if it’s your worst enemy and you’d like 
nothing better that to see him fry, kill him after you save him 
from the Sabbat or the scourge. If you can cover up for 
someone, even if you've never met him, cover up for him. If 
you have to take the fall for your buddies, do it. Setting the 
precedent is the best way to ensure that when you're in need, 
someone's going to be there to catch you. 


‘Aus, Enenues Ano Omes 


201 


ANARCHS INTERNATIONAL 

Anarchs are by no means restricted to the North 
American continent; it’s just that the current focus and 
strength of the quote-unquote movement is there. There 
are still anarchs who remember the 15th century skulk- 
ing around Europe — not to mention their more modern 
spiritual heirs — while in Australia, one can hardly tell 
the anarchs from the elders without a scorecard. It’s just 
that in North America, as nowhere else on the globe, the 
anarchs have established a distinct place and identity for 
themselves. When the Camarilla thinks of anarchs, it 
thinks first of North America’s lost souls. 

For more information on what anarchs from around 
the globe are likely to be like, see A World of Darkness: 
Second Edition. 


* Don’t Eat Pork 


Don't fuck with cops; run away or use Social Disciplines 
instead. Beat them up if you have no other choice, but don’t 
ever kill them. They're all controlled by an elder somewhere, 
and killing them gets both their fellow cops and the elders 
pulling the strings pissed off. 

+ Settle Problems Out of Sight 

Elders might be assholes, but that doesn’t make the Mas- 


querade any less of a good idea. Anarchs are on display 24/7 — 
ifthere’severanother Inquisition, youcan bet they'll be the first 
to go up against the wall. Even if you're seriously ausgezeichnet 
on a hot night and wearing enough leather that would drive a 
mortal to his knees, don’t wave it in the face of the Canaille. 
Mortals dress in eccentric fashions and do odd things in public 
all the time. Mortals do not publicly display fangs, one-inch 
claws and superhuman speed. Anarchs shouldn't either. 

* No Killing 

You'd think it wouldn't need to be stated, but it does. 
KillingotherKindred breedsblood-feuds,and that’s bad enough 
to head off the need for explanation. Killing mortals feeds the 
Beast, risks the Masquerade, pisses off elders who have to cover 
up the murders and is generally impolite. How would you feel if 
you found someone had killed your mortal friends and relatives? 
Everyone has to feed, but killing mortals without need is dumb. 


AUTARRIS 


The other major group of anarchs are the Autarkis. 
Somewhere between anarch, Caitiff and Inconnu, Autarks 
are vampires who become disgusted with the politics of 
Kindred society and simply drop out. 

The world is a big place, and a vampire who conscien- 
tiously avoids contact with other Kindred can spend a very 
long time alone. Precisely when a vampire has become an 
Autarkis is hard to say — most vampires drop out of society 
from time to time, either to contemplate their condition in 
solitude or (as they grow older) to enter torpor and drown 
their unlife in che dreams of the dead. Sometimes these 


episodes end in suicide or Wassail, but they are usually just 
periods of self-exploration. As a result, it’s easy for even a 
relatively young member of the Camarilla to vanish; by the 
time anyone thinks to look for her, she’s long gone. 

The motivations behind a vampire dropping out of 
Camarilla society depend entirely on the vampire in ques- 
tion. Some leave the maddening crowd to seek Golconda. 
The line between these Autarkis and the Inconnu is a thin 
one, and many of the Monitors are recruited from Autarkis 
ranks. Other Kindred simply sicken of the incestuous politics 
and turn away to seek their own existence free of the Machia- 
vellian danse macabre of Kindred society — this motivation is 
particularly common among the Gangrel. 

Some defectors have less admirable reasons for leaving. 
The Masquerade may seem repressive, but it prevents the 
sorts of outrages that would without a doubt otherwise occur. 
Forexample, many Autarkis slip away from the bright light of 
social scrutiny to pursue careers as infernalists. Others fall in 
love with the Beast and flee to the seclusion of the wilderness, 
where they can give themselves to their inner monsters fully. 
And then there are those who hie off to play dark prince, 
embracing whole towns to raise legions of vampiric minions 
and take over the world. Most of these refugees from vampiric 
social mores don’t last very long, but they're more than 
enough to keep the both the justicars of the Camarilla and the 
Sabbat paladins busy. 

The existence of the Autarkis has some significant disad- 
vantages over the life of the average anarch. The Auktarks have 
none of the community that the anarch subculture provides. 
The only support that an Autarkis can count on are his ghouls 
and any fellow Kindred who went with into exile with him. 
Neonate and ancillae Autarkis often have difficulty evading 
hunters and maintaining the Masquerade on their own. 

Even more than from mortal hunters, Autarks are at risk 
from supernatural foes. Marauding Lupine packs put a lone 
Autarkis at risk. Even more serious is the threat presented by 
other members of Caine’s brood. Diablerists who find out 
about an Autarkis are likely to consider him easy pickings, as 
are Sabbat vampires looking for Kindred to act as scouts in 
Camarilla cities. 

Even the Camarilla is a threat. Undeclared Kindred are fair 
game for the depredations of the scourge, and declaring oneself 
before the local prince generally defeats the idea of escaping 
Kindred society. Even ifa lone vampire is declared, justicars and 
their archons tend to assume that a vampire who has retreated 
from Camarilla society has something to hide. Given that 
infernalists, diablerists and newly inducted Sabbat members 
coming to grips with their path are all solitary creatures, they 
have good reason for thinking that way. If the justicar or archon 
in question is liberal, the Autarkis may only be forced to submit 
toan incredibly intrusive examination of her life. Less generous 
or less liberally minded enforcers of the social order may just 
eliminate the Autarkis out of hand and decide which crime she 
was committing from inspection the effects of the deceased. 


‘Tet GUDE 10 THe CAMARILA 


202 


Wig 
WA 
V A 


/ » ff 


THe CAMARILLA CLANS 

Brujah: The youngest members of this clan debatably 
form the largest single subgroup ofanarchs. The anarch subcul- 
ture hascertainly adoptedall the trappingsof modem Iconoclast 
Brujah culture —the motorcycles, the urban warrior ethic and 
the ide 


zation ofa nomadic existence that brings the vampire 
into contact with the freshest and youngest of both mortal and 
Kindred society. Even if most of the membership isn’t actually 


descended from the blood of Troile, they act as if the 
Many Iconoclast Brujah Rants are better attended by pretend- 


were. 


ers to the clan than by actual Brujah — such are the benefits 
of image. While most anarchs grow out of the Iconoclast 
mindset as they socialize into Kindred society, the angry youth 
of the Camarilla are at the command of Brujah’s blood, and 
most princes do not forget it easily 

How many of the anarchs are actually of Brujah’s blood- 
line is open to debate. Some members of the clan claim that 
they makes up over 75 percent of the full-time anarchs; this 
ation. Kindred on the run from 


is probably a serious exagg 


strictly organized clans tend to claim descent from Brujah’s 
line, rather than theit actual clan. Even if directly confronted 
with evidence of a false progeny, most Brujah either say it is 
entirely possible they are the sire, or else lie and claim the 
childe simply to tweak the nose of another clan. 


Toreador, Tremereand Ventrue: These three clansare the 
most conservative and taken together are probably the second- 
largest single source of anarchs. The pressure to perform, be it in 
art, magic or finance, gives the neonates of these clans excellent 
reason to rebel against their situation. Anarchs from these clans 
tend to fit one of two molds. The first stereotype are the rebels on 
the run from a brutal, controlling sire and grabbing their new 
freedom with both hands. They are the anarchs most likely to 
claim descent from Clan Brujah. They are also the anarchs most 
likely to have a reason to conceal their identity, be it a murdered 
sire, a burned-out haven or simply a lot of empty bank accounts. 

The other, much more common stereotype is that of the 
weekend anarch. These are the dabblers who toe the line and 
work diligently for their clan and sire, and then “rebel” during 
their holidays, only to return meekly to the winepress when the 
allotted period.of freedom has ended. Some weekend anarchs do 
it for the sake of rebellion, and some do it in an attempt to 
manipulate the real anarchs into their political games. How well 


the posers do depends on how tolerant the real anarchs present 
are and how good the act is. Skilled and personable weekend 


anarchsin tolerantcompany can beacceptedasalmost (butnever 


quite) equals. Inept ones look lik er fan at a Coolio show, 
andare treated accordingly. Tyingthe poser upsecurely, dropping 
him headfirst down a manhole, then putting the lid back on is 
something like the standard punishment for failing to make the 
grade as a weekend anarch. If the ghoul rats, alligators and sewer 


critters don’t get him, the victim has a fair chance of survival 


ÅLLES,ĒNEMIES ano OTHERS 


203 


Gangrel: A great many Gangrel fall in with the anarchs at 
some point, and the clan’s departure from the Camarilla hasn't 
changed this situation. Gangrel and the anarchs share a similar 
existence, and anarch revels and escapades make damn good 
stories. Some Gangrels even end upas full-time members of the 
subculture, but most eventually wave their good-byes and 
depart for their beloved solitude. The Gangrel who do become 
fully involved in the anarch lifestyle almost inevitably end up 
there because of a paramour, friendship or some other personal 
reason, not because of any ideological commitment. 

Malkavian: Not every Malkavian adapts to the support 
network for the insane that is the blood of Malkav. Some never 
become attuned to the divine madness of the Curse, and end up 
as people with derangements that don’ treally belongto them. A 
lotof these unfortunates end up in the anarch subculture, if they 
can cope well enough to function at all. Other Malkavians 
seeking to leam about the anarchs for pranking purposes make 
the same claims. Both types are prone to disappearance when- 
ever it becomes time for the white-hot worms to eat their brains 
again, soit’shard totell which Malkaviansare the real rejectsand 
which are just faking. Of course, since they're crazy, sometimes 
they're both sincere and faking at the same time. Malkavian 
anarchs are generally treated as whatever they act like, and not 
trusted with anything that would cause a major pain in the ass if 
it walked away or got screwed up. 

Nosferatu: Like the Gangrel, the Nosferatu have aculture 
very much separate from “mainstream” Camarilla society. 
Unlike the Gangrel, the insular, sewer-dwelling families of the 
Nosferatu have little in common with the anarch lifestyle. 
Also, the Nosferatu are bottom-of-the-boot ugly, which cre- 
ates a multitude of problems in the style-heavy anarch 
subculture. Life on the open highway presents certain prob- 
lems toa vampire with a head like a rotting rat. Young Licks are 
often just as disgusted as mortals are by the Sewer Rats, and as 
aresult, Nosferatu makeupa very small number of the anarchs, 
possibly an even smaller percentage than the Malkavians 

Those Nosferatu who do become involved with the anarch 
subculture have invariably mastered Mask of a Thousand Faces, 
if only for ease of relations with the rest of the world. As a rule, 
Nosferatu anarchs have personalities that make them unsuited 
to life in the sewers. This may mean they're too deranged to fit 
in even with the Leatherfaces, or that they're Cleopatras who 
remain outgoing and vivacious despite their changed state. 
Some make it, and some go back to the sewers head-first. 


Tose OUTSIDE THE CAMARILLA 

Sabbat Antitribu: The Lasombra and Tzimisce both 
make only tiny contributions to the anarchs, though there are 
possibly more of both in the flotsam of the anarchs than in the 
recognized ranks of the Camarilla. Prejudices within the 
Camarilla and the Sabbat, the Viniculum and the determina- 
tion of both the clans and the Black Hand to prevent 
defection makes antitribu even more infrequent than defec- 
tors from the Assamites, Setites and Giovanni family. 


Miscellaneous Others: The seemingly endlessminor clans, 
bloodlines and other miscellaneous offshoots of the curse of 
Caine also find homes among the anarchs. Cathayan agents 
often use the anarchs as an underground railroad, since most 
anarchs are unlikely to have ever heard of them. The children of 
Baron Samedi likewise find the anarchs willing companions, 
though the ones with Mask of a Thousand Faces are definitely 
better off than the less gifted members of their bloodline. The 
anarchs have for centuries served as the last home for survivors 
of other bloodlines thought long extinct. Many of the oldest 
anarchs actually have no ideological connection to the subcul- 
ture, but instead simply use it asa cover, exchanging blood-feuds 
and ancient enmities for social prejudice and a traveling life. 

As for the non-affiliated clans, they either do not spawn 
anarchs at all (a Giovanni who went rogue would last a matter of 
hoursafter incurring the wrath of his family) orfit in so neatly with 
the anarch subculture that there's no need for a differentiation. 


ANARCH ATTITUDES 
TOWARD THE CAMARILLA 


Anarchs are best known for their variety, and there are at 
least as many attitudes toward conventional Camarillasociety as 
re anarchs. While obviously none of them love the 
Camarilla and its associated trappings, attitudes range from 
careful respect to dismissive and hateful. The attitudes below are 
the opinions of individuals, not as those of anarchs as a whole. 


THe CLANS 

You've got to be kidding, right? They're just another way for 
the elders to puppeteer you. Why am I supposed to feel obligated 
to my sire? He didn't bring me back from the dead because he 
loved me, he Embraced me to be his tax accountant. Fuck that — 
I don’t owe him or any of my other “ancestors” a goddamn thing 

— Reese Briggs, Clan Toreador 

1 owe my sire a great debt. When he Embraced me, I was dying 
of cancer, and I had never really had the guts to live atall. From him, 
1 learned how to laugh, how to fight, how to dare without fear of 
failure. I feel the same way about my clan — from sire to sire, the 
gift of life has been passed down, and I owe each and every step on 
the ladder between myself and Caine a debt I can never repay. But 
as muchas I love him, and as muchas I owe my clan, I have my own 
existence. I survive for myself now, and I refuse to become a pawn 
in war over ideas that are long dead and cities that are long dust. If 
they have toask me to repay the Embrace with service, then my elders 
have forgotten the magnitude of the gift they've been given 

— Melissa Benson, C 


an Brujah 


PRINcesAND ELDERS 

Most princes is jes’ chaindogs — dey get der spot by toadyyin’ 
up to the primogeniture. Dey really don’t got shit to say about how 
t'ings go on in der domain. Dat makes dem double-bad news for 
us, ‘cause dey take out der frustrations on us with us wit’ no politics 
to get in de way. Jus’ like I said — dey's chaindogs. De primogen 
ain't as bad, dey got what dey want. Dey jus’ try to drag ya into 
deir feudin’ at every opportunity. Now if you can keep out from 


The Guiné To THE CAMARILLA 


204 


CAMARILLA ATTITUDES 
TOWARD ANARCHS 

It might seem strange that with all of the other, 
terrifying threats to its existence, the Camarilla devotes 
so much time to stamping out the anarchs. The reader 
must understand that the majority of those adopting a 
hardline stance in the modern Camarilla remember the 
terror and chaos of the Anarch Revolt so many centuries 
ago, and the Inquisition that followed it. Everyone who 
survived that time knew someone who wasn’t so lucky. 
The conditions that led tothe revolt — overpopulation, 
discontented youth, internecine strife — are being re- 
peated on the moder stage. Many elders see the 
destruction of the anarchs as a prophylactic measure, 
like cauterizing an infected wound. Other elders are 
generally willing to make concessions to those with anti- 
anarch agendas in exchange for advancing their own 
plans. After all, it’s not as if the destruction of a few 
neonates on motorcycles isan impediment to their plans. 

Some elders, however, fear the anarchs for reasons 
other than anxiety over past experience. Some elders 
believe that when Gehenna arrives, the risen 
Antediluvians will move among the anarchs for a time, 
sating their hunger and marking the locations of their 
chosen victims. By destroying the anarchs, these elders 
hope to destroy the sea the Antediluvians will swim in, 
thus forcing them to reveal their hands when they are 
still hungry and disoriented from their long sleeps. Many 
close to the justicars believe that watching for signs of 
the Antediluvians is a major part of the job of those 
archons who run with the anarchs, though the archons 
themselves may not know it. 


between dem, and remember to scrap the shit offa yer boots before 
you walk on der rugs, and otherwise act like you's a civil creature, 
dey ain't so bad. Just don’ ever trust one, or you might as well bend 
over and grab yer ankles in advance 
— Emil Wenkel, Clan Gangrel 

Elders and princes are monsters. For all they talk about 
civility and culture, you know what they're really doing? They're 
sitting down in their basements, behind their walls of influence and 
servants. They grow their portfolios, they go to Elysium every 
week or month or year, and they nurse their ancient little grudges 
and wait to see who Wassails and gets put down next. What a way 
to spend eternity. Not that riding your motorcycle from city to city 
and partying is much of an improvement, but at least the scenery 
changes. There has to be more to our unlife than this, or else we 
really are Damned. 

— Ellen Porter, Clan Tremere 

I think you can do it without turning into a monster. My 
friends and I have settled into this choady little suburb-city, outside 
of Chicago. Laugh all you want — I mean, I never thought I'd 
want to live in a place with so many damn strip malls. But we run 
things, keep the place clean. Suburban urbanization might suck to 


look at, but it's giving younger Kindred a place to live outside the 
domains of the old bloods. We've seen how things are for them, and 
we won't make the same mistakes. Just you watch 


— William Van Meter, Clan Malkavian 


JusTICARS AND ARCHONS 


Me and Wacky Jack, we capped one of the motherfuckers up 
in Seattle a couple months ago. He was one of that Nossie, what's 
his name — Pterodactyl or whatever — one of his bully-boys 
Bloodbanker with a pattem. Crypt's Sons hooked us up with some 
laudanum, we Dominated the guy on the night shift and tuned the 
blood up good. Stupid-ass Gangrel didn’t even make it through the 
first pint. Passed out right in his car. A couple gallons of gas and 
WHOOM! Just like the Fourth of July! One less cop to whack 
when the time comes. 

—Charles “Chuck-E” Baines, Clan Brujah 

It depends on the justicar and archon, really. Petrodon was 
a serious nutjob, and his archons weren't much better. Some of 
them are pretty decent people, though. Just don’t forget they're 
cops. No matter how well you know one, or think you know one, 
you can never really trust them; they're cops first, and people 
second. It’s just like that with archons, even the decent ones. The 
stupid ones, they're a pain in the ass. The smart ones are mainly 
looking for infernalists, Sabbat scouts, Setites — people you 
probably wouldn't mind seeing go away yourself. If you don’t dick 
around with them, they'll usually just go play Mountie, get their 
man, and that’s that. Be careful who you boo-yah. Offing the 
smart ones just makes the stupid ones look good, and killing any 
of them at all if you don't have to just makes life hard for anarchs 
everywhere 

— Melissa Benson, Clan Brujah 


ATTITUDES 
TOWARD OTHER GROUPS 


Byand large, anarchsasa group have the same prejudices 
toward vampires outside the Camarilla and other Awakened 
creatures that their sires taught them as childer. Anarchs 
come into contact with sorcerers, changelings and the Crea- 
ture from the Black Lagoon about as often as any other 
Kindred, and so they're no more likely to change their 
preconceptions that a vampire from any other sect. Certain 


attitudes are common among the anarchs, however, because 
they interact with the object in question in different way or 
more frequently than the average member of the Camarilla 
If the following list doesn’t cover a topic, assume that an 
anarch is fairly likely to have the same preconceptions as a 
more conformist member of her clan when it comes to that 
particular specimen of supernatural fauna. 


Mortars 

You just can’t party without them. What else need be said? 

— Reese Briggs, Clan Toreador 

We come into contact with mortals a lot. That makes it 
doubly important that we maintain the Masquerade — just 
because we're defying the authority of our sires doesn’t mean we're 


ALus, Newes ano OTHERS 


205 


not responsible for our actions. Not only do we have the most 
influence on the perceptions of the mortals, but we're always on 
trial. If we can show that we're responsible enough to be an asset 
to the Camarilla on our own, things will get a lot easier for us. 

There's also a moral aspect — we're the people most likely to 
abuse mortals. We need ghouls to take care of our crash pads and 
havens. If we want to party, we need ghouls to do that too. It’s simple 
to say to yourself, “Oh, well, I'm not doing anything wrong.” But 
think about how easy itis for a ghoul blood bound to you to decide they 
want to smoke crystal methamphetamine for you. It’s not just a 
matter of self-interest; they love you with the passion of tke blood. 
Your central nervous system will be fine afterward — you're dead. 
Your ghoul may not come out so well. Sure, you can tum a couple 
of ghouls into clapped-out junkies, and the blood will keep them going 
until they're older than William S. Burroughs. But really, how much 
different does that make you from your sire, in the end? 

— Melissa Benson, Clan Brujah 


THe SABBAT 

Oh, yeah — dey’s crazy. Poison religion, jus’ like de snake- 
handlin’ and the speakin’ in tongues dat used to go on at de 
backwoods churches my daddy took me to. Eatin’ fire, sharin} 
blood like dey's heathens, buryin’ demselves and livin’ in grave- 
yards. Dey's jus’ like backwoods people, ‘cept dey’s dead and. 
knows it. Give any smart one de frissons. For now, I think J’m 
doin’ jus’ fine without ‘em, t'ank you. 

— Emil Wenkel, Clan Gangrel 

The Sabbat are rough customers. They stick together like brothers 
andif youkill one, they're worse than cops. They're also usually pooras 
piss. They hate ghouls witha passion, have no fear of fire and thes freney 
constantly. That means. you want to make them-chase you into 
ambushes, bum ‘em out during the day and kill them Offone at à time 
like a cat with mice so that the ones left gét dumber and dumberas they. 
get hotter cand hotter for your ass. Ok, and be ready to num like hellif it all 
goes wrongs because they are somé crazy motherfuckers. If youfuck with 


them wrong, they will wa aronend and bite you in the ass so fast you lL 


becallingfor animal control. Asifit needed sai, don’ tever takeanything 
from one, don’t ever believe anything one says, don't ever tell one your 
name orany information about you— even if youdon’ think they could 
possibly useitagainst you. Trustme, they will find away. Wharever you 
do, don't ever go anywhere with one, no matter what. 

—William Van Meter, Clan Malkavian 


THe INCONNU 

1 think they're just the same as the elders of the Camarilla and 
the Sabbat. Another sect with their own agendas and their own axes 
togrindand their own internal politics that make amess of everything. 
I mean, it’s great that they're all into Golconda and everything. Of 
course, the Camarilla’s into peaceful coexistence between Kindred 
and mortals, and staying away from getting too involved with the 
mortal world. I’m sure the Inconnu enjoy just the same astonishing 
success as the Camarilla in their relentless pursuit of their goals. 

— Ellen Porter, Clan Tremere 

Where I come from, a man who takes hisself out into de 
backwoods and lives all alone in alittle cabin is eatin’ hikers, doin’ 
somethin’ bad t’ little boys or thinkin’ Jesus is his new bes’ friend. 


Idon’t see no reason why bein’ dead changes t'ings. You trust one 

ofde Inconnu, he probl’y gonna fuck you, eat you or tell how God 

loves you so much he’s jus’ gotta fuck you and eat you. 
—Emil Wenkel, Clan Gangrel 


Lupines 

Thear they have a sophisticated culture anda religion that has 
stayed true to its animistic and totemic roots since prehistoric 
times. I heard their whole culture is a devoted to the defense of 
Earth from evil spirits. They probably also help little old ladies 
across the street. I'd appreciate their nature-loving culture of 
peace alittle more if the furry little fuckers didn't get a big kick out 
of the ritual murder and dismemberment of people like me. 

— William Van Meter, Clan Malkavian 

Hoo boy, I see’d a loup-garou go through a bunch of hunters 
out for coon like it was a fox and they was enjoyin’ dat henhouse 
livin’. 1 kilt two in my time, and one of de bastards bit my arm 
clean off. It took damn near took a month to grow back. I say we 
nuke ‘em till dey glow, den shoot the hairy bastards in de dark 

— Emil Wenkel, Clan Gangrel 

Ie’sreally hard to maintain an objective view of a people whose 
whole purpose in life focuses on terminating your existence. I 
understand that some sects of the Lupines are genuinely likable 
people. Unfortunately, most of them are walking Cuisinarts, and 
you're the salad-to-be. Waste them first, wonder if they remind 
"you of a childhood pet later. 

— Melissa Benson, Clan Brujah 


Pravinc AN ANARCH GAME 


Anarch gameshave an immensé potential, but they are also 
some of the mostneglected, Often ignored as beingtoosimplistic 
Ot uninteresting, anarchs.contain some of Vampire: the 
Masqtierade’s most potent symbology. They are rebellions youth 
personified, neglected talent and determination boiling up from 
thestreets tochallenge established powerswructures. The Anarch 


y Movement isnot be as direct in its appealasthe struggle between 


“fhe Kindred and the Lupinesor the Camarillaand the Sabbat, but 


it offers a degree of emotional tension between the protagonists 
and antagonists that can easily vanish from a game built around 
a simple “us versus them” conflict. Below are some ideas to help 
anovice player or Storyteller “get their head around” an anarch 
character fora campaign. These suggestions are by no means the 
entire range of possibilities for an anarch game, butan assortment 
of possibilities. Storytellers should embroider upon them or add 
their own material, as they see fit. It is your game, after all. 


PLAYING AN ANARCH 

On the surface, anarchs are the angry youth of Kindred 
society. They are like mortal youths, but more so. From their point 
of view, their ideas and opinions are ignored by their elders, they're 
expected todo menial tasks below their dignity, and they're treated 
like the children they most certainly are not. Given that most 
Kindred are Embraced because of their expertise and life experi- 
ences, the fact that anyone fails to rebel is a tribute to the human 
propensities for honoring hierarchical systems and social controls. 


The GUDE 10 THe CAMARILA 


206 


Most anarchs fall into one of two categories. The first are 
those who have had all they're willing to take, ever, from their 
sires and other elders, and who are not going back under any 
circumstances. All have been psychologically abused and ma- 
nipulated, and most have also been physically abused. Many 
have been treated badly enough for blood bonds to weaken or 
even break entirely. Whether they liveas virtual hermits or take 
part in the nomadic lifestyles of the anarch subculture, these 
angry young Kindred make up the die-hard core of the anarchs. 
Though they range in age from a few years to a few centuries 
under the Embrace, most of these anarchs choose to die on their 
feet rather than live on their knees again. They give the 
subculture its reputation, its sense of tradition and its legends, 
living and otherwise. 

To be honest, these ageless rebels are the exceptions. 

The vast majority of anarchs are temporary exiles from the 
Camarilla, as noted above. Such Kindred are essentially blowing 
off steam and frustration with the norms of vampiric society, 
though from a mortal perspective, the period of rebellion can last 
lifetimes. Whether these vampires are anarchs on weekends only 
or spend a few decades learning to appreciate existence, they are 
still different than the die-hard ideologues. Hatred of the elders’ 
authority hasn’t ossified them and become the defining charac- 
teristic of their sense of identity. Most anarch characters are 
probably this latter sort of vampire — hardened firebrands are as 
one-sided and difficult to play as low-Humanity elders. 

Below are a number of questions thata player creating an 
anarch should answer during the process of character cre- 
ation. Answering these helps to flesh out and define the 
character in her role as an anarch. Obviously, the regular 
questions of the Concept stage of character creation still 
apply — these questions are to help define the character as an 
anarch, not as a vampire or a person. 

© Why is the character with the coterie? 

This is an extremely important question. In many 
games of Vampire: the Masquerade, the “coterie” is likely 
to have internal stresses, but stay together because of the 
limited geographic scope of their unlives and the social 
pressures on them either to cooperate or at least to form an 
alliance against manipulative elders. In an anarch game, 
this isn’t the case. Anarchs are highly mobile individuals, 
and they exist outside the law. A lack of common interests 
leaves the group no reason to stay together, and serious 
internal tensions in the group usually mean that someone’s 
going to meet the Final Death. 

The Storyteller and the group asa whole should probably 
decide on the common interest(s) of the group before charac- 
ter generation, though this is not a mandate to make 
stereotypical characters for the sake of party unity. Common 
interests can bring all sorts of disparate people together. Also, 
be creative. Anyone can think of a rock band or motorcycle 
gang membership as common ground for characters. But 
what about an anarch pack composed of serious golfers, a jazz 
quartet or (for the particularly daring) a gaming group? 


Compatible personalities are also a plus. While the 
characters don’t have to get along like bestest buddies, there 
shouldn't be any really violently dissimilar personalities. It’s 
the responsibility of the players to get together and compro- 
mise on issues of conflict that threaten the chronicle, though 
the Storyteller should probably be prepared to step in and 
mediate if a consensus doesn’t develop easily. 

© Why is the character rebelling? 

The situation of the character prior to his “going anarch” 
deserves some thought. People who spend a lot of time being 
pushed around, mistreated and otherwise abused, especially 
by people they love, develop a lot of quirks relating to their 
situations. While the responses are different from person to 
person, they are usually closely related to the situation that 
caused them to develop. It’s worth thinking about what it is 
that made the character into the person he is. 

Try to keep in mind that sexual abuse is far too serious a 
topic to be used flippantly as a source of characteriz: 
though the twisting of vampiric sexuality is still relatively 
unexplored terrain. Characterization is most likely to be af- 
fected by the psychological nature of the relationship between 
the character and his sire. The sire’s personal habits, favorite 
method and environment for abuse, the anarch’s regular tasks, 
the character of the abuse and the triggers that set off abusive 
episodes are the ones most likely to make an impression on the 
young vampire, as well as the ones which will help best define 
the sire from the character's point of view. 

* How devoted is the character to hi: 
wanted criminal? 


ion, 


ideals? Is he a 


Thisisanotherimportantpoint. Some charactersare juston 
the run from their own personal demons, while others have a 
commitment to changing things on a scale larger than their own 
personal concerns. Making a decision about the depth of the 
character's feelings is an important step in character creation, as 
is making sure that all the characters share generally the same 
feelings to generally the same degrees. The bomb-chucking 
revolutionary is going to be out of place ina band of Kindred who 
just want to forget about their collective past and make a new life. 
Likewise, ananarch is going to bea fifth wheel ina group thatfeels 
vampires need more and not less social control. Making sure this 
sort of consensus comes about during character generation is a 
matter for the groupasa whole todecide on, with moderation and 
suggestions from the Storyteller. 


THE ELDERS 
OFTHE CAMARILLA 


I sit in an empty chamber, surrounded by the treasures of 
centuries. Vases crafted in the day of the Peloponnesian league 
adom my shelves; unknown sketches by Da Vinci are framed 
(poorly, I think) on the wall. The floor is of the whitest marble, 
the walls of smooth and luminous mahogany. From the ceiling 
comes the soft hum of the circulating air, its temperature and 
humidity calculated precisely to preserve the relics within. 


‘Aus, ENEMIES AND OTHERS 


207 


I sit in the middle of all of this splendor and am bored out of 
my mind. Ihave been sitting in this room, night after night, for the 
past seven years. Before that, I sat in a different, but similar room 


in another city two thousand miles distant. And centuries before 
that, I sat in another chamber much like this one as the mobs raced 
through the streets of Paris overhead. 

1 am bored, burdened with an ennui so crushing that its 
weight would drive a lesser man mad. Every night my mind 
reaches out and caresses the wills of my servants, here and in a 
dozen nations, and gives them their instructions, One is to pull all 
of my assets out of a particular bank, precipitating that institution's 
collapse and damaging the retinue of a rival whose ghouls control 
that august savings and loan. Another hunts a renegade great- 
grandchilde of mine through the streets of Macao, my displeasure 
made manifest yet all unknowin 
1 


I sit here, and watch my plans unfold. I sit here and watch 


my rivals do the same. Ghouls and childer come to me, bearing 
messages and tidbits of information. Sometimes they bring me 
food, humans or neonates no one will miss. One childe in 
ticular has gotten clever, Embracing derelicts, cleaning them 
up, and bringing them to me to devour 
He's a trifle too clever, I think. How long before he gets the idea 
icing those meals with some modem chemical or other to disorient 
me, so he can dine on something rarefied himself? Not long, | think 
he's ambitious. It’s time for him to take an extended vacation, I 
think, or perhaps I'll simply grant him the fate he reserved for me 
Soon, I think — I recognize that hungry gleam in his eye 
There's a rapping at the door. I call my assent to entry, and 


watch one of my favorite ghouls — what is the woman's name 
I find myself forgetting dragging a groggy neonate of some 
flavor or other. She explains that her baggage was apparently part 
f an assassination attempt, and had actually breached my haven 

I rise, and give orders for everything to be packed up and 
moved immediately. If this one piece of riffraff (whose unlife I 
take a second to end) can find his way in here, a dozen of his 
friends know about it. This place is no longer safe 


Iam bored of existence, yes. Bored of endless nights retracing 


the same dance steps. Bored of the same challenges and lies. But I 


am not so bored as to abandon even so arid an existence as this. Life 
is still sweet, even to the unliving. And even as my ghouls and 
childer bustle around me, preparing for my departure from my 
home of seven years, I feel once again the familiar thrill of fear. Just 
a tiny taste of it, really — this neonate and a hundred of his allies 
could not harm me. But they might try, and they might have allies 
or powerful patrons, and thus the spider is coaxed from his lair 
Pity those who have been waiting for me to do so 


BEING AN ELDER 


A vampire, unlike a fine wine or an exquisite cheese 
does not become better with age. More cunning, certainly 
More influential, more deadly, more feared and hated and 
resented, and more and more powerful — all of these things 
But never better. Even in his own labyrinthine thoughts, the 
elder realizes this. He realizes that as his blood congeals and 


hisskin slowly turns to parchment, what began asa fate worse 


HEC 


than death hecomes only more appalling with time. This 
knowledge, of the bitter rot at the heart of his own identity, 
drives the elder to further luxurious escapes of cruelty and 
deception. Ifhe must live for millennia with his own excesses, 


so must everyone else. 


COMMONALITIES OF THE ELDERS 

As wind and water erode once-distinct boulders down toa 
common smoothness, time and trial reduce the elder vampires 
to similarity. Although they are by no means identical, the 
elders increasingly have more in common with each other than 
they do with their childer. Together they shrink from a hateful 
age of machines and equality, together they scrabble to buttress 
the crumbling Camarilla and keep the fraying veil of the 
Masquerade intact. Elders remember the bonfires of the Inqui- 
sition and see the flames of the Sabbat in the distance, and grow 
cold together. Their ways become familiar to each other, and 
though familiarity breeds contempt, it remains a thing to be 
prized as change howls through the world of the Kindred. 


FEAR 
Theeldersarefear incarnate. No lesser Kindred cancontem- 
plate the elders’ vile machinations, casual brutalities and wealth 
of hidden powers without feeling an icy chill as thin, young vitae 
turns to water. But just as the elders’ psychic corruption taints 
their physical actions, so too does the fear they create in others 
reflect the fear that grips them all. One might imagine that lordly 
immortal monsters, possessed of unbelievable abilities and com- 
manding Disciplines of awesome might, would fear nothing. 
Unfortunately, the long unlives of the elders have taught them 
well that the World of Darkness contains fears that defy imagina- 
tion. Rather than facing challenges and risking the loss of 
everything, those who survive for centuries in the upper ranks of 
the Camarilla have learned to make discretion indeed the soul of 
wisdom. Unchecked, conservatism breeds cowardice; immortal- 
ity breeds enemies; betrayal breeds paranoia. This trapcan beonly 
too seductive for an elder with the all-too real enemies of 
Inquisition and Sabbat howling at her haven door. The deadly 
logic of the elders’ unlives demonstrates time and again that only 
the fearful survive. Vampire elders have sacrificed much for 
immortality; the sacrifice of courage is trivial by comparison. 


Fear OFTHE MODERN 

Already inclined by their role and by their very natures toa 
conservative distrust of the new, elders seem insensate with fury 
atthespeed with which the modern world destroys and casts aside 
the treasured ways of the past. Virtually all of the elders came of 
age in a world that changed only minutely; a new rigging for a 
sailing ship ora new sword design might come once in a century. 
The logic of tradition kept humanity close to the soil; when the 
old ways were forgotten, starvation was the inevitable result. The 
oldest elders remember the glories of Rome, Carthage and even 
Ur, and for millennia they rested secure in the knowledge that 
humanity could only rise so far before destroying itself in a wave 
of barbarism. The elders held the whip hand; loosely or tightly as 
suited their whim, but held it they did. 


This smug certainty shivered with the end of the Dark Ages 
and shattered with the coming of the Machine Age. Suddenly the 
kine had the powers of speed, steel and wealth that the vampiric 
nobility had so jealously guarded. Worse than that, these new 
things freed the mortals from the soil; the old cycles were broken 
as humanity flowed into the greedy cities and left the Lupines in 
command of the desolate countryside. Kings lost their heads, 
humanity lost its respect for tradition, and the elders lost their last 
tenuous connection to the human world. 

The Computer Age now grinds the fragments of the 
elders’ world to powder before their horrified eyes. Every new 
decade seems to pile enormity and obscenity onto the ones 
before. The kine slaughter each other endlessly, constructing 
weapons that could scour the Earth clean of life — and of 
unlife. Information, once jealously guarded by secretive clerks, 
is flung about the globe faster than the speed of thought, 
leaving the sluggish elders gaping at its passage. Telegraph, 
telephone, television, satellites, Internet connections — 
somehow these empty shibholeths have become words of 
power that the elders find it difficult to even speak. 


FEAR OF THE YOUNGER 

The elders might think the whirlwind of changes surviv- 
able, or even desirable, if it caused the other Kindred to look to 
the Camarilla for guidance. Unfortunately for the elders, this 
madhouse is the world where the odious ancillae (and mayfly 
neonates) grew up. Somehow these impudent whelps have 
convinced themselves that they have mastered the unmasterable; 
they share the human delusion that technology and change 
make useful servants rather than dangerous enemies. 

This weakness of mind and character shows in the increas- 
ing tendency of the younger Kindred to adopt anarch ways even 
when giving surface homage to their betters. The rot that has 
destroyed human churches and kingdoms now infests the 
Camarilla. The worms of equality, liberty and fraternity gnaw at 
vampiric society, although the elders respond with force un- 
dreamed of by mortal monarchs. The younger vampires gleefully 
accept this human prattle into their veins along with the con- 
temptible narcotics, discordant music and proletarian fashions of 
the Canaille from whence they spring and upon whom they feed. 

Seldom better than the rabble of humanity, the younger 
vampires resent the just and time-tested guidance of their 
elders. The elders compound this situation, of course, by 
setting childer against childer in endless games of manipula- 
tion, deception and intrigue. To the elders, this only amounts 
tosensible self-defense. After all, the only sure route to power 
for an ambitious childe lies over the diablerized husk of an 
elder. Normally, the young and thin of blood would be no 
danger — but the world changes too fast these days. The kine 
have trampled upon the virgin moon and discovered the 
seeds of human conception; it is hardly impossible that they 
may stumble upon some grave threat to the Kindred with 
their computers, DNA scanners and atomic metallurgies. If 
such a thing occurs, it is the elders’ nightmare that only the 
weak and contemptible neonates will understand its poten- 


‘Aue, ENEMIES AND OTHERS 


209 


tial — and that their ludicrous demands for independence 
and equality will tempt them to use it. 


FEAR OF THE OLDER 

As opposed to the half-formed nightmare of a changing 
world and rebellious youth, the elders’ fear of the Methuselahs 
(and those who came before them) is real and rational. The 
Methuselahs certainly exist, and they purposefully hide them- 
selves from the elders’ best attempts at scrutiny. From these 
indubitable premises comes one conclusion only: The 
Methuselahs play deep games indeed, using the eldersas their 
pawns in some covert struggle. 


Elder vampires know that were they in the Methuselahs 
position, they would show no mercy and give no hint to their 
unfortunate minions. The elders’ fear of the Methuselahs is a 
fear of their own reflection. Whispers tha 


the Methuselah. 
have increasingly gone Inconnu or even achieved Golconda 
give scant comfort. Both these fates are unknown, and the 
unknown is an undiscovered country to be walled out. The 
Inconnu, especially, unnerve the elders. Simultaneously a 
rebuke for elder cowardice and avarice and a threat to elder 
power, they can only be placated — or avoided. 

Even more hateful to the elders’ precarious sense of self is 
the memory of the Antediluvians, the powerful fathers of each 
clan who can unmake nations and roil the surface of the world 
even from deep in concealed torpor. With prophecy after 
prophecy from the Book of Nod manifesting in these end times, 
the elders see the Antediluvians slowly rising to the surface of 
Kindred affairs like great and aged sharks drawn to the blood 
spilled on the face of the deep. When the last red night falls, the 
elders fear they will fall too, indistinguishable from the most 
contemptible neonates in their sires’ final blood frenzy. 

The elders find themselves trapped in a cleft stick, 
desperately wishing that the rumors of the Antediluvians’ 
demise (or ascension to Golconda) were true, while unable to 
give such rumors open support for fear of undermining the 
traditions of lineage and clan that hold the Camarilla to- 
gether under the elders’ tutelage. The attempt to square the 
circle of their forbidden wishes and the foundation of their 
power leaves the elders ever more dissociated from truth, and 
from the clarity of decision that truth brings. 


Fear or EACH OTHER 

Even greater than the potential threat of the young and 
the shadowy threat of the old is the actual and ongoing threat 
of an elder’s fellows. Other elders jockey for power within cities 
and Camarilla; a cutting remark before the Inner Council, a 
brood of ghouls, or a trivial cash payment to a human arsonist 
can serve as daggers held by allies and enemies alike. 

Every elder who falters inspires the others to new bouts of 
greed and envy, scrambling for the spoils. These struggles 
create new rivalries and inflame old ones. No allegiance is as 
permanentas any division seems to be. Each elder understands 
in the core of her polluted being that she must triumph or die 
under the talons of her fellows. That triumph may come 


millennia from now or tomorrow night, but come it must or 
unlife has no meaningand the blasphemies committed tostave 
off Final Death will prove empty ones. Every elder plotsagainst 
every other and justifiably fears the others plots against him. 
The 500 years of the Camarilla are an eyeblink in the elders 
potential lifespans; the oldest of them remember a time when 
the Lextalionis was the law of all against all. Cooperation 
comes hard, and always with caveats and fine print. 


FEAR OF THE SABBAT 

The elders’ individual unease with each others’ machina- 
ondary to their terror of the Black Hand 
and the vile heresy that is the Sabbat. And for good reason; the 


tions still remains 


plots and intrigues of their colleagues spring from roots all 
members of the Camarilla share, but the Sabbat blossoms in 
different soil. It cries openly for the destruction of the elders of 
the Camarilla, the drowning of Kindred society in a tide of fire 
and blood and an end to tradition and respect. The Sabbat 
blasphemes against the laws of the Camarilla, and tools and 
strategies honed in weary years of struggle within those laws 
seem blunt and worthless in the firelight of the new anarchy. 
Evenand especially for the elder vampires, fear of the unknown 
other transcends hatred and fear of self. 

Ofcourse, the fear of the Sabbat is also a fear of the Beast 
within the elder vampire herself. Every secret whim repressed 
as too risky, every forbidden fantasy rejected as unsafe, every 
remembered privilege of malign power from the Dark Ages 
returns in the night on the whispers of the Sabbat’s seductive 
Reject the Masquerade and hunt freely. Reject the 
Traditions and flood the globe with Kindred. Turn your back 
on the strictures of clan and edicts of justicars. These are the 
siren songs the Sabbat uses to destroy the will and sap the 
resolve of the Camarilla. If even the elders know doubt and 
feel temptation deep within their leathery hearts, the lure of 
the Sabbat must call even more seductively to the feckless 


c 


ancillae and empty-headed neonates. 

The Sabbat knows this, and dares to urge the childer on 
toblasphemous diablerie. Exposure to the contagion runs the 
risk of epidemic, but quarantine fails with every night that 
falls. Hordes of neonates shrieking for a taste of vintage vitae, 
overwhelming the elders’ havens in the embodiment of the 
mob — this would be the price of failure. 


Fear oF HUNTERS 

Even if the Sabbat is somehow parried, should the 
Camarilla riposte break through the fading scrim of the 
Masquerade, the elders risk destruction. Five centuries ago, 
human fears leagued with human knowledge carved a cau- 
terizing path through the ranks of the Kindred. Only 
desperation and the luck of Caine saved the unliving race 
then. Should the cry of Inquisition be raised again in this 
hateful modern age, when the kine have bred their numbers 
into the billions and increased their infernally clear-eyed 
science and horrific technology even more so, even the 
Antediluvians might fall. 


The Guide 10 THE CAMARILLA 


210 


To be forced to hide from cattle is shameful, but medieval 
pride has proven suicidal. Those who once were and by rightsstill 
should be lords of the world mustskulk in the shadows, pulling the 
strings of ignorant humanity like a Venetian puppetmaster rather 
than ruling with naked fang and mailed fist. More galling still, it 
is the elders’ hateful lot to preserve the plodding kine from 
vampiric rapacity, knowing that only by keeping the sword at 
their throat intact can they keep it from plunging home: 

This fear, like the other fears of the elders, is born of 
contradiction and the nature of modern unlife. The path of 
circumspection, of hidden power and conspiracy, is the only 
path open to the Kindred. Their corrupt bargain forces them 
to accept it, to impose it upon their ungrateful progeny, to 
defend it against insanity and suicidal rage and to transform 
it into a virtue of necessity. 


FRUITS OF THE CAMARILLA 

Twisted as they are by these rational fears, the elders of 
the Camarilla are incapable of treating their peers with the 
respect that each feels is his rightful due. To show consider- 
ation, to repay trust with trust, to act in honest concert or 
from genuine feeling is to show weakness and to bare one’s 
throat for the fang of a rival. Rather than a band of brothers, 
then, the society of the Camarilla is a den of vipers. It is a 
poisoned garden bearing corrupt fruit. 


HATRED 

Elders hate everything that they fear. Fear exposes raw 
and dripping wounds in the elders’ psyches. Short of the 
possibly mythical Golconda, elders cannotheal these wounds 
or reconcile the conflicting pressures that force them open. 
The only recourse left is to submerge their pain in the 
blinding heat of hatred. 

Millennia of practice have made the elders very good indeed 
at hatred. Elders know just how to keep grudges boiling, how to 
recall slights and how to show a bold front or a respectful 
countenance to enemies while cringing and raging within. 
Newcomers observing Elysium see only the gilt and glory and the 
calm exercise of power and control, but the fires of hatred create 
the lambent glow of vampiric civilization. Hatred servesasa balm 
for the injuries of fellows or of fears, and as an excuse for anything 
gone wrong or left undone. A new hate becomes something to 
savor, to encourage, to nurture and develop. Hate gives an elder 
something precious — something to give unlife meaning. After 
all, to creatures who saw full moons rise over Justinian’s 
Constantinople, governing Cleveland presents little challenge. 
Carrying on a successful rivalry with a predator as canny and 
cunning as themselves — this is the ultimate challenge. Hate, 
ironically, strengthens the Camarilla. Competition weeds out 
the weak, and hate fires the competition. Friendship and loyalty, 
onthe other hand, become liabilities, weak points for the assaults 
of rivals. Thus, even natural allies keep some distance behind a 
hedge of curt formalities or flowery insults. 


‘Among the curses of the elders, their long memories rank 
among the worst. Not only are they unable to forget a slight, 


they know that no other elder will forget one either. Thus 
saving face becomes nearly impossible —even the tiniest loss 
of position is remembered for all time, marking the loser as a 
weakling to be further preyed upon. Elders never forget, and 
they never forgive. To forget is to surrender both surcease and 
leverage, while to forgive is simply to surrender. 


Jeatousy anD Lies 

Vampiric society functions as a classic zero-sum game: 
For every winner, there is at least one loser. The only way for 
elders to advance inthe ranks of the Camarilla is by removing 
rivals — politically if possible, physically if necessary. With 
new Kindred engendered all the time and ambitious ancillae 
shoving from beneath in a desperate Darwinian guerre a mort, 
elders cannot even stand still without making enemies. 

Thismakeselderspreternaturally aware ofthe status ofevery 
other elder, eternally jealous for every erg of leverage or ounce of 
influence shown by another. If an elder rises, it is over the backs 
of his fellows. Even elders safe on the sidelines may resent his 
success asa prize rightfully theirs. Few parties, factions orsectscan 
long hold under the corrosive force of elder jealousy. Only the 
tightly knit Tremere function asa true party, and the other clans’ 
fear and resentment of their arriviste success conspire to keep the 
Balance. Glan jealousy, therefore, is virtually the only higher 
loyalty that any vampire feels. Some elders find the presence of 
like-minded blood kin their only respite from the ordeal of 
Camarilla intrigue, but others resent even their clanmates for 
hogging the few rewards or homing in on delicate intrigues. 

The constant demand for information on other elders’ 
status within the Camarilla leads to gossip and innuendo, spread 
by enemies, allies of convenience or any other elder who finds a 
willing earandan offer ofa juicy tidbitin return. With the supply 
offeal insider information ata premium, counterfeits —artfully 
ipanstructed lies, spur-of-the-moment guesses, desperate hoaxes 
— spread through elder society. Those Kindred without true 
Ht wledge offer up false coin in desperate hope of bringing in a 
pennyworth of fact or reliable interpretation, 

The channels of gossip run in at least two directions. 
Falsehoods inevitably find their way back to the target and spawn 
Hyeetnore jealous lies. True knowledge, like honest self-knowl- 
edge, is yet another pleasure forbidden to the elders by the walls 
of thoms they have built around themselves. Thus any news or 
ction is immediately interpreted in the worst possible light; no 
Tews i good news, but there is always news. The cycle of jealousy 
Spins ever forward, then, as elders passed over attempt to under- 
minetheirfellows with scurrilousrumorand intrigues. Meanwhile, 
theelders on top resort to blackening the image and poisoning the 
reputation of any below them, hoping that their real enormities 
can remain undiscovered in the cloud of falsehood. 


SPITE AND INTRIGUE 

With the coin of information unalterably debased, the 
elders must turn toother methods tokeep score. With noreliable 
reason to injure another, pretexts must be created. With per- 
sonal survival at stake, but without the courage or capacity to 


‘Auues, Enemies AND OTHERS 


211 


rike openly, elders allow subterfuge and slight to take the place 
fcombat and exile. The atmosphere of the Camarilla hecomes 
hothouse of tiny offenses and subtle undercuttings. 

As if immortality did not possess enough dangers, it als 
rings with it a debilitating ennui. The sameness of the old fears 
nd the old hatreds, the banality of the forcible gentility of 
Elysium, and the steep price of decisive action against any actual 
preat blend in a deadly cocktail. The resulting heady decoction 
ads toeldersfeudin ffeuding itself. Stirring up yet 
nother tempest in the Camarilla’s stuffy chambers may be 

buitisnearly rue danger that elders engage 
Je keeps the stakes small, so spiteful revenges and 
ne-upmanship bro ades without any result save 


nomentary diversion from important (but terrifying) pre 


Power 


Ifthe eldersare frozen in terror, stiff with hatred, isolated 
y je and distracted by intrigue, how is it that they 
Ider 


raspin, 


zaintain their grip on the reins? First, of course, a v 


apidly falls to his fellows — ambitious ancillae and 
contemporaries remove any elder from the equation who 
roves unable to k x eye on his own interests. Only the 
rong survive, and survival increases their might as the spoil 
f the fallen are shared 
1, immortal beings fearful for their lives work con 
nuously to increase their personal power. True, paranoia and 
nservative age hold many elders back from sudden, risky 
1ovesand large windfall profits. Buta hundred slow accretions 
uild immense resources over enough time — and time is « 
hing that every elder has in abundance. Never forget that 
elders have had many, many mortal lives to learn the les 


wer and to harvest fortunes and favors many time 


WEALTH 
n of the modern era has met with the 
{approval — the interest-bearing acc 
nservative Tremere, the most secreti 
claustrophobic Gangrel find security 
t wizened, gray humans in offices from 
the Cayman Islands to Zurich to Hong Kong are adding coin 
ter coin to many lifetime The smooth Ventruc 
now this best. They move easily among the boardrooms of 
Wall Street, the front offices of Panama City and the ances 
{European nobility. With wealth comesanything 
tal world can offer: security, political power, luxury 
th. Ifcoin has replaced church and crown 
, with its power comes a crucial weakness 
in now be bought 
s always have enough mone 
irse, and modern money even 
aputer-assistedarbitrageurscommit legal frauds 
mntinent, invest the proceeds on another, and 
Iaw the profits ona third —all in the time it takes a Venue 


rtoselectabanker. Computers, globalization, capital flightand 


derivatives create increasing problems for elders barely used to 
letters of credit and still reeling from the introduction of fiat 
currency. Clever human assistants take up the slack for now, but 
eventually even the dimmest kine realizes his opportunity. Some 
clans’ neonates, used to ATMs and the NASDAQ, are trusted to 
watch the humans, while other elders trust to the age-old powers 
of the blood bond. Swiss accountant ghouls make even better 
financial assistants than they do status symbols in some circles. 


STATUS 

Unlike money, status only counts within the Kindred 
community. Status is the marker that the endless intrigues of 
the Camarilla must be paid in; all transactions are denomi- 
nated in the perception of power and the favorable nod of the 
harpies. Using any other measure of power within the con- 
fines of Elysium is forbidden by the Traditions, so those who 
have status have the ultimate medium of exchange. With 
status among the invisible lords of the world comes access to 
the prince, and to more concrete forms of power. Great 
fortunes and the fates of armies in the mortal word can hang 
on the reception of a chance remark or a flattering couplet 
within the rarefied heights of a prince's court. 

Unlike hoards of treasure secure in Cayman Island vaults, 
status rises and falls for every elder whether he spends it or not. 
By failing to side with a rising star, an elder risks loss as serious 
as actively backing a loser. Chains of association, of favor and 
intrigue, bind every elder in the Camarilla together. But status 
can be a mirage; success can grant status or status can grant 
success. If an elder’s initiative deals a well-aimed blow to the 
local Sabbat, he might lose status in many eyes despite his 
victory. He has shown up the prince, after all, a dreadful act of 
lese majesty. Conversely, an elder enjoying high status in the 
city might find that her blows against that same enemy land 
harder as the other Kindred hasten to assist and bask in her 
reflected glory. A suitably dramatic triumph (even brilliantly 
staged party) may radically change the rankings, but the 
winners and losers are not always the obvious ones. 

Bred to judge the intangibles of art and to value image over 
everything, the Toreador elders discem and award status most 
keenly of all the clans. Unfortunately, as generation after genera- 
tion demands its share of status while adding layer upon layer of 
falsehood and venom to the memories of every elder, every elder's 
status decays. Thus, the Toreador find that they must expend ¢ 
greater amounts of political capital to retain their status as fear and 
jealousy erode the gentilities upon which their power rests. 


T- 


DISCIPLINES 

Asstatus is exclusive to Elysium, the secrets of Disciplines 
are exclusive to the Kindred. Hence, their use becomes the 
commodity of final resort; when all other contestsare ruled out, 
the powers of Caine underpin showdowns political and physi- 
cal, With the elder reverence for the power of blood, great gifts 
with the Disciplines mark their possessor as a superior being 
indeed. Younger vampires often feel that their Disciplines 
odlike do the elders, 


make them demigods: How much more 


who can crush any upstart ancillae with barely a thought, feel? 
Some Disciplines explicitly render power re 
Presence and Dominate in particular. 


lationships clear, 


The latest masters of the Disciplines, Clan Tremere, may 
well feel that they are masters of the Camarilla. By way of 
confirmation, their unique facility with Thaumaturgy allows 
them to counter many other clans’ strengths. The Tremere 
build discipline within their clan's rigid hierarchy, and argue 
that disciplined power breeds powerful Disciplines. Elders of 
other clans smile politely at the presumption of this new- 
fledged line. Centuries of practice spent honing the arts of 
murder and darkness makes any Discipline a weapon to fear 
in the hands of an elder. Even passive Fortitude becomes 
deadly if its user selects the ground of a contest well and 
wisely: a greenhouse on a summer's morning, for example. 


INFLUENCE 

The Camarilla exists to keep human society at a talon’s 
length from the unlives of the Kindred. It stands to reason, 
therefore, that its elders spare little effort to bend human society 
to their corrupt will. Of course, with every elder’s claw raised 
against the gathering strength of every other, such influence is 
hard to gather unnoticed and even more difficult to maintain 
Proxy conflicts within human communities make excellent 
release valves for vampiric rivalries denied a proper outlet by the 
jasquerade and Elysium. Thus, indirect attacks on 
rivals are best mounted through human intermediaries, often 
manipulated through shells and false flags that keep the elder 


strictures of M 


unsullied by the grime of streetfighting or low politics. 

By a twisted but somehow comprehensible logic, such 
indirection has become the province of the Malkavian elders 
aboveall else. The thousand tiny interactions not evena vampire 
can watch somehow seem to tum out in the Malkavians' favor. 
Is it simply Obfuscate and Demenation working below the radar 
of the more exalted clans, as the Tremere and Ventrue claim? Is 
it the power of lunacy itself made manifest in the Malka 
Madness Network, as some Toreador claim to perceive and the 
few lucid Malkavians seem to hint at? Or is it simply that 
discerning the Malkavians' true motives is always an exercise in 
indirection, 
twisted path through the human world? This does not mean that 
the other clans lie helpless. The Brujah call jackbooted thugs or 
firebombers into the streets, the Ventrue freeze cargoes and bank 
accounts in place, the Tremere work indirectly from the fringes 
of humanity. True, influence does not necessarily replace the 
force of a sudden killing blow. However, elder influence can 
expertly orchestrate such attacks from any convenient ware- 
house or passingcrowd, an invisible hand wieldinga visible blade. 


sian 


ind so any action they take must necessarily travel a 


CONTACTS 

The true currency underlying status, influence and even 
wealth is information. Knowledge is power, and knowing who 
knows what is the first step in a successful campaign against any 
enemy. Every elder tries to maintain a network of childer, 
retainers and even common mortals to gather, correlate, and 


Anus, Enemies ano Omis 


213 


pass on vital information for her. This network, of course, 
becomes a target of subversion or disruption by her rivals. 
Worse yet, she must either devote vast amounts of her time to 
sorting through this information and finding the wheatamongst 
the chaff. Delegating this task leaves juniors with access to 
information —access, therefore, to power. Worse yet, it means 
trusting subordinates with her own secrets. To know what facts 
seem important to an elder is to know what that elder wants, 
wishes for and fears. This information is powerful leverage, 
which few elders willingly give up. 

Nosferatu elders certainly do not, but they have the advan- 
tage of time. While other elders dance in attendance above 
ground in courts and elaborate charades, the Nosferatu scour the 
sewers and the subterranean channels for information. While 
other elders can never trust their subordinates, the subordinates 
of the Nosferatu can never trust each other — the Nosferatu’s 
favorite Discipline of Obfuscate allows elders to hear anything as 
anyone. Thus, the Nosferatu can afford to keep their informa- 
tion pristine. Not for them is the ruck of rumor and lies that the 
Toreador and other court popinjays must parrot to remain au 
courant. The Nosferatu can sift streams of sewage for treasures of 
fact and sell them to the highest bidder. Of course, those streams 
have gotten thicker, and fouler, as the Camarilla subliminates 
into pettiness and paranoia. The Nosferatu elders must now 
decide whether to restrict the supply of good information and 


risk being attacked for their power, ot to debase the coin of fact 
with alloys of plausible lies. Even the question must remain a 
secret, of course, but Nosferatu are not the only clan with ears in 
low places. 


ALLIES 

As the careful balance of the Camarilla tilts alarmingly, 
theclansand elders scramble for allies both within and without 
the court. Allies must be treated as equals, a galling task for the 
proud and fearful elders. If offended or betrayed, a shrewd ally 
knows that his allegiance can always be taken elsewhere — 
such as to the betrayer’s rival. Unfortunately, a lifetime as lords 
of creation and an unlifetime as paranoid manipulators renders 
most elders less than perfectly fit for the kind of diplomacy 
needed to make allies in an increasingly dangerous world. 


Force 

When all else fails, sheer naked force is sure to solve any 
problem, at least in the short run. The founders of Carthage 
discovered that timeless truth, and this lesson is one that the 
world never tires of delivering to any elder who trusts to a 
quick tongue or a bribed lackey alone. The elders of the 
Camarilla hold their positions, after all, because in the final 
analysis nobody is strong enough to dislodge them — yet. But 
for now the elders fight their wars with human sword fodder, 
and a force of humans willing to kill or die for a vampire’s 
political goals is a hard thing to find and a harder one to keep. 

The Brujah elders are well-aware of the use of violence from 
their younger days; humans will kill or die gleefully for the ideals 
that the Brujah can articulate convincingly. Radicals of all 


stripes, fanatics with grudges or crusades, and thugs looking for a 
reason tosmash heads follow Brujah leaders (whether Iconoclast 
ancillae taking direction from their elders or the Idealist elders 
themselves), swayed by impassioned appeals to emotions that 
elders of other clans cannot even feign. Other Kindred must fall 
back on fear, money and the lust for power to raise their armies — 
although Brujah belief makes dedicated warriors, Ventrue gold 
raises very big battalions. Nosferatu use blackmail (orfailing that, 
a pipe bomb in a gas main), Tremere use sorcerous might; each 
clan holds its own arsenal with which to fight its secret wars. The 
Camarilla tries to direct these energies outward to the Sabbat, 
much as the elders’ royal pawns tried to divert their own vassals 
into Crusade when vampire lords held power openly. Such 
policies of distraction worked only indifferently then, but the 
Camarilla’s survival depends on it working far better now. 


SURVIVAL 

Survival is the great goal of the elders singly and of the 
Camarilla collectively. A vampiric elder gladly sacrifices anything 
or anyone to prolong his existence. An elder meets threats to his 
survival with crushing, panicked counterblows, like the flailings of 
aman deathly afraid of spiders when confronted with a fiddleback 
on the windowsill. Slow, charitable, merciful or reluctanteldersdo 
notsurvive. Every elder knows this and has seen it proved time and 
again in mountain villages, urban tenements and everywhere in 
between. The only thing that will frighten an elder out of his fear 
is mortal danger. A cornered rat seems placid compared with an 
elder in terror for her unlife. No strategy is too risky, no threat too 
lurid, no punishment too obscene, no retribution too final for a 
vampiric elder faced with Final Death. 

Although this desperate devotion to unlife drives the 
paranoia, malice, jealousy and contempt that threaten todestroy 
the elders’ society and the courts of the Camarilla, it is also the 
only force that could impel them to maintain it. As long as the 
threats from outside the Camarilla seem greater than the threats 
within it, the elders will cling to its framework with iron tenacity. 
Whether they pull it apart in their frantic adherence to its 
structure, or let it fall by huddling within its inadequate shelter 
rather than sallying forth to defend it, is known to no man. 


THe ELpers By CLAN 


Although all elders share the traits of fear, Camarilla- 
spawned hate, and desperate drive to prolong their own 
cancerous existence, their blood has not grown too turgid to 
recall their heritage. Clan differences show up in elders as 
well as brash neonates, sometimes even more eccentrically as 
age and strain take their slow but certain toll. The Curse of 
Caine and the strictures of Camarilla drive all elders to 
disintegration. Only the blood of the founders links them 
together with themselves and each other. 


BRUJAH 

The Brujah elders know the tension between their position 
of traditional power and their youth’s posture of rebellious 
contempt. To outsiders, they seem to exorcise it in street fighting 


The Guide TO THE CAMARILA 


214 


and rabble-rousing, leading to Ventrue barbs about “marketing 
rebellion.” Truly, there isnothingnewunderthesun, orunder the 
moon either. Afterafew centuries of power, revolution for itsown 
sake loses its charms. However, the elders remember the old 
glories of Carthage bynightand the flickering fires of Moloch and 
Tanith. To these Kindred, whose very existence speaks of the 
persistence of dead things, Carthage might still rise again. The 
elder Idealists believe it must rise on the ruins of the world; most 
Brujah elders feel that it can be founded behind the Camarilla’s 
sheltering walls. Younger Iconoclasts have little hope of seeing 
behind a Brujah elder’s mask, but the rare neonate who touches 
a chord of memory within an elder may be caught up in reverie 
— and in millennia-old revolution. Very little has the power of 
an old dream, except perhaps a very ancient dreamer. 


MALKAVIAN 

Elder Malkavians, born close to Malkav’s blood and 
traveled far from Malkav’s time, see the two extremes fractur- 
ing into one, along with all the other extremes, of course. 
Somewhere in that interlacing filigree lies the pattern, the 
truth that lies open only to those brave enough to look 
unflinchingly. These elders gaze into the world with a sight 
honed by a hundred visions called hallucinations by the 
willfully blind. Portents overlay themselves on every activity; 
a car alarm sounds the symphony of creation while the road 
to Nod lies down a human intestine. Everything is provi- 
sional, nothing is temporary. When Malkavian elders turn 
their gaze upon others, anything can happen, but it usually 
doesn’t. This is quite a disappointment to the elders, who 
more and more pay attention to the important things that 
only they have the eyes to see properly. 


NOSFERATU 

Elder Nosferatu see the roiling and reformation of the upper 
world asa reflection oftheir own physical evolution. Pessimistic or 
unkind elders of other clans oftenagree. This seeming remaking of 
the world in their image leads some Nosferatu elders to argue for 
holding back from the final confrontation. Just as Nosferatu 
neonates are often redeemed by their physical deformities, perhaps 
the Camarilla or the entire race of Caine will be redeemed by this 
time of trial. Other Nosferatu point out the unpleasant similarity 
between this view and the heresies of the Sabbat. Meanwhile, the 
scuttlings of the Nictuku grow louderas certain prophecies, arcane 
even to the vampiric lords of information, manifest themselves. 
Will the ancient brothers of the Nosferatu emerge to remold the 
clan into a dark redemption? Danger from above, danger from 
below. Used togettingalongwithout othersand tokeepingcounsel 
asaclan, the Nosferatu elders remain unsure of the true and proper 
course of action. With just a little more information, perhaps the 
tunnel to safety will reveal itself... 


TOREADOR 

Changes in the outside world have not left the arts alone; if 
anything, the opposite is true. Keats thought beauty lasted forever; 
now even Keats may not endure. Assaults on the canon of 
literature, the standards of poetry, the laws of perspective and the 


principles of musical harmony leave many Toreador elders unable 
tocomprehend any artatall, much asother elders are baffled by fax 
machines or white phosphorus grenades. Ancient beauties remain 
fine, but Shakespeare to the contrary, agedoth wither and custom 
stale anything given too much time. Where will new beauty come 
from, when art is sewage and the young mutilate themselves for 
fashion? Those few Toreador elders who throw themselves into 
modem art often find themselves sliding down the road of 
postmodemism to true anarchy and loss of meaning. Once all the 
idols are smashed, all the conventions are dead, what role can art- 
as-rebellion play? Both flightfinto conservative reaction and frantic. 
embrace of the new lead to the same dead end for these elders. Do 
not pity the Toreador who finds that after centuries her beloved art 
has desiccated into nothing but empty imitation and banal postur- 
ing, Pity, rather, those in her power. 


TREMERE 

The Tremere elders have less to fear from their own childer 
thanks to their strict rules of initiation and discipline. Of course, 
they still must fear the jealousy and hatred of other elders, who 
still consider the Tremere jumped-up interlopers in the legacy of 
Caine. These elders often turn a blind eye to their childer’s 
actions against Tremere interests; this leads the Tremere elders 
to tighten their hold on power and to withhold help from other 
clans. Until recently, Clan Tremere was uniquely confident 
among Camarilla sects that their mastery of the mystic arts 
meant that their survival was assured. Security, as older clans 
could have warned but preferred not to, is fleeting for any 
Kindred. With rich irony that Tremere’s rivals appreciate, the 
wizard clan faces diablerie, the hour of their danger predicted by 
their birth. The cannibal Assamites return, free at last of 
Tremere’s enchantments, and no Warlock wonders which clan 
will feel the Assassins’ wrath first and most frequently. 


VeNTRUE 

The Ventrue elders claim they must bear all the problems 
of the Camarilla on their shoulders. Where other clans’ elders 
can afford the luxury of tending their own gardens and carrying 
on private vendettas, Ventrue must look outward to the Sabbat 
and Inquisition. Meanwhile, other clans hold,back or actually 
obstruct needed defensive measures. The Ventrue elders find 
their resources and attention stretched ever thinner; of late a 
certain irritation with the otherélans has entered their private 
councils. Ventrue lords have always cultivated a certain noblesse 
oblige; after five centuries ofbearing the entire burden of keeping 
the Masquerade intactand shepherding the Children of Caine 
through crisisafter crisis, that veneer of nobility wears thin. Even 
immortal patience has its limits, it seems. Pride slowly curdles 
into arrogangagfd protectiveness becomes condescension and 
even resentment. Some Ventrue elders wish privately that some 
horrible disaster would befall the other clans so that the Blue 
Bloods could be appreciated properly again. 


GANGREL 
Some elder Gangrel pass their blood on to progeny and 
then voluntarily enter torpor or Final Death, either out of 


‘Aus ENEMIES AND OTHERS 


215 


concern for the natural environment (as they claim) or out of 
cowardice and funk (as their enemies claim). Those elders 
who remain, however, increasingly hold themselves apart 
from other vampires and other elders. Some Gangrel elders 
no longer stop traveling at all, endlessly crossing the country 
or even circling the globe, torn between the distastefulness of 
involvementand the lingering call of Kindred loyalty. Alien- 
ation imprisons these elders just as surely as terror paralyzes 
those of otherclans, however; the difference between motion 
and stillness is not as great as it might seem. When younger 
Gangrel meet these elders at Gather, they learn what drives 
them away from the lights of the Camarilla’s cities. Young 
vampires of other clans seldom encounter Gangrel elders any 
more. When such meetings happen, however, they resemble 
storm fronts, bringing thunder and change toall in their path. 


DEALING WITH ELDERS 

He must have a long spoon that must eat with the Devil. 

— William Shakespeare, Comedy of Errors 

No vampire can ignore the elders. Even anarchs and 
Caitiff find their actions constrained and infringed upon by 
the machinations of the elders at the heart of the Camarilla 
Few vampires have seen a Methuselah, but nearly every city 
holds an elder prince, and even neonates can address their 
lord in council. The elders serve as the visible embodiment of 
vampiric society. Even the Sabbat defines itself primarily 
through its opposition to the will of the elders and the 
Traditions they uphold. Although the Sabbat expresses open 
contempt for the elders’ fossilized beliefs and sluggish hearts, 
they never underestimate the cunning of an elder’s mind or 
the sheer physical power she can bring to bear. 

Elders thus hold a linchpin role in vampiric society, the hub 
ofahundredconflictsanda thousand intrigues. Dealing with elders 
is often a common occurrence not only for other Kindred but for 
many other beings and even the common human herd of the 
World of Darkness. Of course, not every interaction with an elder 
happens in a ballroom or across a negotiating table. Not everyone 
knows these dealings for what they truly are, and of those who do, 
still fewer enjoy them. Elders do not grow old letting others set the 
meeting grounds, or even by granting importunate strangers audi- 
ence. Transactions with elderssometimes come indirectly through 
financial and legal mazes — or more immediately through a car 
bomb planted by a human minion ofa neonate blood bound to an 
ancilla who serves the elder's whims, all unknowing. Sometimes 
only the quality of the betrayal or the sheer artistry of the persecu- 
tion announces elders’ work. 


ELDERS AMONG THE KINDRED 


On their home ground, the elders retain a calm aloofness, 
moving with all due speed or not at all. The appearance of 
disorder within the councils of the Camarilla cannot be 
tolerated. The elders and the Traditions both make a virtue of 
stability; even Malkavian elders must restrict their spasms 
while in Elysiums or salons. To show distraction, haste or even 


open anger is to show weakness before the harpies and before 
one’s enemies at court. The necessity for calm, for sang-froid 
and for vampiric courtesy inall its flavors isa charade that rivals 
the Masquerade in importance within the ranksof the Camarilla. 
Delivering insults or striking fear into others in such surround- 
ings can take decades, or even centuries, to master. 

Outside Elysium, of course, an elder is able to give free reign 
to her emotions, especially when dealing with progeny or with 
younger vampires in general. Of course, an elder runs the risk of 
appearing undignified when investing any emotion at all, even 
contempt, onaneonate. Itis the ancillae who most often feel the 
wrath and spite of the elders. Elders seldom praise younger 
vampires, save to humiliate those not receiving such notice — 
or to appropriate a useful pawn from another elder’s chessboard 
Intelligent neonates fear elders’ open friendship and interest far 
more than they do the cold disregard they might expect. 

Within an elder’s own clan, restraint can be looser still. 
Among the Nosferatu, for example, elders have been known to 
congratulate childer for success and even to commiserate at 
failure. Such commiseration takes the form of giving the 
unfortunate youngster a chance to repair his mistake, but no 
other clan gives more consideration. Tremere elders also 
commend success, in the interest of efficiency, but it is a cold 
and mechanical approbation indeed. In other clans, success by 
even a coterie of ancillae (or worse yet, neonates) stands a 
greater chance of marking the coterie as ambitious, and there- 
fore dangerous, than it does of occasioning a reward. The best 
outcome for such a coterie shows as a glacial increase in status: 
ahalf-inch deeper nod, an extra minute of public conversation 
with a Toreador primogen, or the like. Wise childer take these 
crumbs gratefully. When large rewards come from an elder, 
they often come as indirect strikes at her rivals — like every- 
thing else in Kindred society, success has its dark side. 


PRESTATION 

A wise ancilla (or over-ambitious neonate) can only rise in 
status and power by entering the economy of favor and obliga- 
tion that weaves the elders together. This system of prestation 
servesas the true currency of the Camarilla. The same hypersen- 
sitivity to slight and insult that fuels the flame of the elders’ 
continuous jealousy also allows them to keep track ofevery small 
assistance or trifling service performed (for them, or for their 
rivals) by another Kindred. In order to advance in the estimation 
of their peers, vampires of the Camarilla curry favor by assisting 
those peers’ goals and hampering the efforts of their enemies. 
‘Small services such as attendance ata salon ora tidbit of reliable 
gossip bring small services in return — delivery of a message or 
the loan of a talented ghoul for a night. 

Some Kindred continuously give and receive favors, keep- 
ingthemselvesafloat through the sheer variety of their contacts. 
Others try to assist each major faction, trusting that any rising 
tide will lift their political boats. Still others accumulate 
mall obligations, asking only for rare but significant 
boons in return. In the hothouse air of the Camarilla, granting 
a favor isa sign of strength. Only Kindred with great power, the 


numerous 


Tht GUDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


216 


reasoning goes, can afford to disoblige themselves for others. 
Hence, asking for a boon is a sign of weakness. 

A similar logic governs the repayment of favors. Although 
only the elders’ honor actually enforces any oblige 
creditor, an elder who refuses to repay a boon not only appears 
churlishand vulgar (bad enough in Ventrue or Toreador circles), 
but seems a weakling desperately hoarding even scraps of influ- 
ence. The sharks circleat sucha sign of weakness. Thus, a clever 
Kindred often seeks out statusand advancements by doing many 


tion to a 


favors, and weakens her foesby neverseekinganythingin return. 
Kindred society sees the bestower as powerful and genteel, while 
the harpies paint the borrower as desperate for favor and able to 
subsist only on the sour mercies of his betters. 


Conspiracy 

Behind the mirrored surface of salon and court, Kindred 
elders labor to undermine their enemies’ positions by any means 
available. Indeed, some elders work harder at weakening other 
elders than at opposing the Sabhat or the Lupines. This ongoing 
conspiracy for power consumes the elders’ attention by neces- 
sity. Even a theoretical elder concerned only for the good of the 
Camarilla at large would be undone by a hundred plots against 
her if she did not conspire6n her own behalf. 

Some of these intrigues remain solely confined toa single 
clan. Inthe hierarchieal Tremere, internal alliancesand covert 


attempts to rise in faction or chantry politics remain vital; only 
the Inner Council can promote Tremere vampires within the 


clan structure. For a vampire to elevate herself in Kindred 
society at large, however, she must depend not only6n herown 
clan (which usually, though by no means always, supports her 
ambitions to strengthen the clan as a whole in the city's 
primogen) but on her contacts and supporters within other 
clansas well, or with the anarch community. Reputation gains 
value when it spreads far, and no Kindred can afford to neglect 
any opening, no matter how indirect, into the councils of the 
great. A disreputable anarch may hold the key tosome strike 
against the Sabbat, or a vampire of a rival clan might agree to 
sell out her own archenemy within it. The coinsofopportunity 
and betrayal remain good even outside the Camarilla. Some 
aspiring Kindred deal with the Lupines (espetially Gangrel 
elders), and particularly rash aspirants may even enter into 
arrangements with the Sabbat. Many rumors connect certain 
powerful elders with factions within the Sabbat, and whisper of 
deals allowing both to prosper from the destruction of a 
particularly vulnerable lord of the Camarilla. 

Controlling the flow of information holds the key to 
ss for any conspiracy. The Nosferatu have a great 
against them 
when every other clan instantly suspects their hand in a 
rumor or in the gathering of forces for rebellion. Although the 
Nosferatu loudly proclaim their neutrality, other Kindred 
universally believe that the Nosferatu protest too much. No 
elder believes in neutrality, anyway, especially not when 
eternal servitude remains an all-too-real possibility. Elders 
traditionally trust their greatest secrets only to those ghouls 


suc 
advantage in this, but this advantage works 


and retainers blood bound into their service. The blood bond 
does allow any elder to maintain a fairly extensive local power 
structure — the system only breaks down when another elder 
must be consulted or somehow involved. 

The risk of betrayal is the corpse at any feast of intrigue. If 
eldersnaresand plans run deep, their treacheries run deeper still. 
Virtually every elder who survives to this day carries a lengthy 
reputation of conspiracies betrayed and deals broken behind 
him; treason greases the path to power. Thus, the eldest of the 
elders find few takers for offers of allegiance, and the most 
ambitious youngsters can often build factions hased on their not- 
yet debased word. As a result, news of ancillae organi 
alliance often causes the elders to strike hard and fast — and to 
reward generously any informers within the group. Of course, 
any ancillae factions working against each other become tools 
for elder rivalries; the best such a coterie can hope for is to be a 
communal tool of the Camarilla against the 


tion or 


Sabbat for a time. 


MANIPULATION 

Rather than run the risk of open collusion, then, many 
elders resort to manipulation of one kind or another toadvance 
themselves over the bodies of their fellows. From the perspec- 
tive of these elders, nothing gives more satisfaction than a 
struggle between others. Manipulators enjoy creating rivalries 
where none exist, and fanning enmities into open conflict. 
Simply by trading favors, “accidentally” letting a piece of 
malicious gossip drop in a salon or hinting at alliances that 
eem to materialize, a clever elder can bring two other 
Kindred to an escalating hostility, or even to actual blows. 

This potential for manipulation adds another layer to 
the elders’ mutual jealousy and distrust. Elders analyze every 
action, every favor, every word of other Kindred searching for 
the hidden trap or poison pill within. Even finding the trap 
does not mean that the target can avoid it. Vampiric honor, 
or court status ¢an all force an unwilling victim to 
“play along” with her own manipulation. Harpies and other 
onlookers particularly admire those elders who can manipu- 
late a knowing victim. 


never 


survi 


Some manipulators hide traps within traps; when the 
firstisdiscovered, acting upon it sets off the second. Malkavian 
elders have gained grim reputations for the unpredictability 
of the snares they spring; some Malkavians seem to take 
actions solely to send the victims (or witnesses) into a frenzy 
of paranoid speculation and countermeasure against anonex- 
istent threat. One Malkavian elder made a habit of offering 
a different flower each day to random neonates. Elder after 
elder tried to decipher the “flower code” and the significance 
of the choice of neonates; the poor childer were hauled in for 
interrogation by increasingly distrustful sires, and conducting 
Elysium became nearly impossible as discussions stopped 
whenever anyone brought flowers into the room. 

Ie is difficult to manipulate older vampires. Some particu- 
larly observant or skilled childer can play upon their elders’ 
natural tendencies to paranoia and jealousy, or to their vanity 
and suspicion. Most elders can spot these ploys for what they 


‘Aus, Enewues ano OTHERS 


217 


are, however, and ancillae make themselves particularly vul- 


nerable if they attempt such manipulations on a whim or 


without preparation. Elders manipulate younger vampires, 
especially, by maneuvering two dangerous coteries to open 
feuding and mutual self-destruction. Young Kindred seldom 
know enough of their ground to pose a genuine threat to elders 
in the political realm, and that’s just how the elders like it. 
The elders keep their progeny ignorant to make them 
pliable. Many of the most experienced manipulators can recog- 
nize the signs in the seemingly artificial and contrived rivalries 
between and within clans of the Camarilla. Of course, the most 
experienced manipulators are also generally the most paranoid 
and distrusting, These elders fear that they themselves are the 
targets for such manipulation by the reclusive Methuselahs, or 
even by the seemingly disinterested Inconnu. This fear becomes 
another factor in the Camarilla’s impotence against the Sabbat 


and other crises. Ifthe Sabbat, forexample, servesthe Methuselahs 


asa stalking horse to weaken and paralyze the otherwise-danger- 


ous Camarilla, then acting against the Sabbat would be playing 
into the hands of the shadowy Fourth Generation. 


MIsDIRECTION AND INDIRECTION 

A successful conspiracy resembles a magic trick. Distrac 
tion and misdirection allow it to go forward. No elder simply 
moves to do something for a plain and easily understood 
reason. The eldest of all strive never to show the real reason 
for their actions. The Kindred of one city tell the story of a 
Ventrue elder arriving on the scene in time to save the unlife 
of the city’s prince from a Sabbat attack. The Ventrue 
shouted: “Fear not, sire, | am here to save thee!” The prince 
paused in his defense, and responded: “I see that, your 
lordship, but what is in it for me?” Since that Ventrue now 
rules the city, the question was a good one. 

Misdirection often involves a diversion — an elder who 
plans to weaken a rival may throw a party, take up a new lover or 
evenstartan entirely different feud tocoverheractions. Attacking 
on one front to progress on a second is another common type of 
misdirection. An assault on a rival’s resources may actually be 
intended to goad the target into lowering his own status by 
requesting a boon from a seemingly disinterested party 

Indirection also helps such schemes go forward. No elder 


reveals to another every favor she possesses, the extent of her 


resources or the names of every contact and mortal tool in her 
retinue. It’s rare that they share any information at all, in fact 
An example on a small scale: An intriguer might use his 
influence in the city’s police department to hamper a rival's 
business interests or even her nightly feedings. By successful 
misdirection in Elysium, he could convince her that her 
problems stem from an ambitious ancilla (also secretly part of 
his faction). When she appeals to him for help against the 
ancilla, he can arrange for the harassment to cease, thus 
increasing his status at her expense. If the ancilla’s ambition 
has been causing problems as well, he might even solve the 
problem by arranging an unpleasant fate for his luckless 
pawn, thus killing two birds with one indirectly hurled stone. 


Tht GUIDE To THE CAMARILA 
218 


ELDERS AND OTHER 
SupePRNATURALS 


To theirdistaste, the elders of the Kindred must occasionally 


share the stage with other supernatural beings of one sort or 
another. Such necessities irritate elders for many reasons. First, 
the rules which an elder Kindred spends centuries learning and 
perfecting have no use outside vampiric existence. Second, most 
elders know little about other supernaturals, and fear what they 
do not understand. This fear and ignorance, of course, works to 
poison the atmosphere of any such dealings. Often, that poison 
works on both sides; dealings between Kindred and werewolves 
almostalwaysend badly for someone. Even in situations when no 
overt rivalries exist, however, confusion and miscommunication 
takes its toll. Virtually every elder has heard of some unfortunate 
vampire hampered by the mysterious vagaries of magi ot wraiths. 


WeREWOL VES 

Vampires fear Lupines more, if possible, than humans fear 
vampires. Since so much of the elders’ power rests, ultimately, on 
fear and force, they instinctively respect, and therefore instinc- 
tively resent, the terror and violence inherent in the existence of 
werewolves, Cautious paranoia thus drives the elders of the Kin- 
dred to avoid any contact with Lupines if at all possible. If they 
absolutely must encounter lycanthropes, the elders take every 
imaginable precaution to ensure themselves the whip hand. Elders 
will arrange overwhelming force, arm their ghouls with silver shot 
and set meeting places in city parks rather than deserted suburbs or 
wild forest preserves. Elders also take any opportunity to betray and 
ambush werewolves, considering it to be nothing more than 
intelligent self-defense. Elders may promise the Lupines anything 
they want, only to unleash hordes of Brujah ancillae on the Lupine 
packs the instant their furry backs are turned. 

Only the elders of Clan Gangrel find it possible to work with 
the Lupineson any consistent basis other than enmity and combat 
—and even they are far from friendship with the Werewolf. For 
whatever reason, perhaps because the Gangrel’s intense need for 
and near-worshipof the wilderness touchessome chord within the 
shapeshifters’ being, Gangrel can sometimes make cautious and 
transitory agreements with the Lupine tribes. To keep faith with 
the Lupines requires the Gangrel elders to build relationships of 
mutual trust (or at least bare toleration) over decades, made as 
difficult as possible by the maniacal suspicion that the werewolves 
hold for any Kindred regardless of clan. 


MAGI 

For creatures who thrive on rules and order, the presence 
of a human being capable of violating any law of nature at a 
whim is nerve-wracking indeed. Fortunately for the Camarilla, 
not only do the human magi themselves work behind the 
scenes of reality, but their work seems to have virtually nothing 
todo with the ways of the Kindred. The mystics seem to inhabit 
an entirely different world from vampires at some times, and 
frankly no elder troubles herself greatly about them. 

The sorcerous Clan Tremere, however, occasionally man- 
ages to put aside its qualms to dabble in mortal magi affairs. The 


clan hasneverquite been able to leave behind its old associations 
with the Hermetic houses of its birth, although open consorting 
between the two would lead to fatal disapproval from the elders 
of both sides. Elder Tremere recall too well that wizardly quarrels 
led them to their current state, partly in an attempt to gain some 
advantage in the battles between the Hermetic houses; they 
have had centuries to contemplate the choice. 


WRAITHS 

Wraiths’ intangibility, and their lack of involvement in 
mortal affairs, complicates dealings with the Restless Dead. 
Most elders are satisfied to leave ghostly things at that; their 
own lives roil with too much threat and confusion to add still 
more. However, wraiths make excellent spies; invisible and 
oft-ignored, they can eavesdrop on the most secret conference. 
Many of these ghosts seem greatly attached, even tied, to an 
object or person within the corporeal world, and these so- 
called Fetters make the best leverage an elder can have over a 
wraith. Having such a hold on one of the Restless Dead gives 
an eldera powerful resource —and adangerous one, should the 
ghost rebel. Elders on bad terms with the Nosferatu may have 
overwhelming need to take these risks for such an agent. 


CHANGELINGS 

The Kindred know little about the changelings, those few 
faeries lefton Earth. During the Dark Ages, Kindred dealt with 
the fae more often, yet even then mystery, myth and confusion 
shrouded such transactions. To most elders, dealing with the 
Fair Folk invites a farrago of mystification and chaos. The 
traditional and orderly elders of the Camarilla dislike this as 
much as they dislike the potential lawlessness of the magi. 
Fortunately, the effect the Fair Folk can have on the Camarilla’s 
conspiracies remains minimal. Any faerie with power left this 
world longago for Arcadia; the powerless remnantaren’t worth 
the time it would take to understand them. 

Thus, only the occasional Malkavian elder works with 
the fae. When he does, it seems that insanity and Glamour 
can find a meeting place somewhere in the forest of illusions 
and hallucinations surrounding both. What those meetings 
portend, what occurs within them, and even whether they 
actually occur in reality atall isknown only to the Malkavians 
— and to the changelings themselves. 


CATHAYANS 

Although the Cathayans seem to be fellow vampires, dealing 
with them isas fraught mystery as with any enigmatic mage—and 
potentially as dangerous as with a berserker Lupine. There are two 
great mistakes that elders can make with a Cathayan. First, some 
elders are prone to treat Cathayans as personages of no great 
account. Since Cathayans have no status within the Camarilla, 
and their Disciplines and codes are foreign and unfamiliar, foolish 
elders feel that the Cathayans can be ignored or viewed solely as 
exotic curiosities. Centuries of unlife spent ruthlessly cutting and 
ctushingany Kindred whodiverges from the minutiae of Camarilla 
salon etiquette build reflexes of condescension and underestima- 
tion that prove most unwise when practiced on the Kindred of the 


Auts, Enemies ano Onis 


219 


East. The Camarilla Kindred of Hong Kongand elsewhere on the 
Pacific especially can speak to the folly of such a path. 

The other mistake holds equal danger, even ifitappearsless 
severe. Many Western Kindred treat the Cathayans as they 
would any other Kindred, with surface respect and secret resent- 
ment. Unfortunately, the Cathayans see the world differently 
from the Camarilla. Even though both cultures value politeness, 
reputation and power, the weight they give toeach varies widely. 
Misperceptions build upon each other, and restoring amity 
becomes ever more difficult. For this reason, many elders of the 
Camarilla often go out of their way to avoid any dealings at all 
with the Cathayans. Kindred elders avoid risk even under the 
best of circumstances; dealing with the Kindred of the Eastnever 
happens under the best of circumstances. 


ELDERSAND MORTALS 


Elders almost always deal with humanity through net- 
works of false fronts, cut-outsand hired (orghouled) henchmen, 
Only the most important, most compromised human servitors 
ever sce an elder face to face. Even then, the elders never reveal 
their identity, posing as rich businessmen, eccentric collectors 
or organized crime figures. Humans are almost always expend- 
able — an elder’s faintest doubt of a human's trustworthiness 
or a mortal’s first hint of independence signs that mortal’s 
death warrant. No elder thinks twice about murdering a 
human; he undoubtedly has done so tens of thousands of times 
over. Humans are more apt to concern themselves with the 
lives of cattle than Kindred elders are with kine. 

Many times, this blindness causes the elder to misjudge 
a human’s capacity for violence or to mistake desperation for 
tractability. Human breaking points vary, and often the kine 
fail to recognize when rebellion is instant suicide. Used to 
dealing with very risk-averse Kindred, elders can be taken by 
surprise: bya hurisn gamble againsr overwhelming odds. 
Ossified folly can potentially lead an elder to underestimate 
a human minion’s capacity and send an insufficient force to 
dispose ofan unwanted tool. Any human who gets away once, 
however, is hunted down by everything available — the 
Masquerade itself, and the elder’s life, is potentially at stake. 


ELDERS IN THE CHRONICLE 


Elders and their machinations often serve as the meat of 
a Vampire: the Masquerade chronicle. Even if the game does 
not focus on the elders, or even on court and salon, the 
schemes and plots of the Camarilla greatly affect every other 
vampire’s life and political situation. The elders lie at the 
center of the Camarilla like bloated spiders within their webs. 
They notice every quiver of the Kindred around them, and 
can move to destroy threats with terrifying speed, surgical 
cunning and paralyzing power. 

Elders can be frightening enemies or overwhelming allies, 
or vice versa, for a coterie of ancillae or neonates. Unless the 
coterie is made up of determined Caitiff anarchs, it will have to 
deal with the elders at some point, whether of the city or of their 


respective clans. The elders dislike and distrust anyone who 
attempts tostay out ofKindred politics; they cannot do anything 
about the Inconnu, but they can make unlife on Earth hell fora 
powerless coterie without allies. Once the coterie makes allies, 
of course, then it is just as thoroughly ensnared within the 
labyrinth of elder politics — and the elders win again. 


ELpersas THEME 

The elders of the Camarilla embody the theme of Vam- 
pire: the Masquerade. Elders demonstrate what happens 
after tragedy. Drained of Humanity, they now fester in the 
womb of their shadowy existence. Elders serve as a warning: 
This is what you must not become. And yet, these beings must 
be defeated at their own game: To avoid them, you must 
become them. Manipulation and lies beget manipulation and 
lies, and he who would oppose the elders must use their tools. 

Theeldersalsobatten upon theirchilderastheirchilderbatten 
upon the kine; 
truth and he must physically drain his progeny of vitae to continue 
his baneful unlife. It is not amiss for a Storyteller to draw parallels 
between the characters’ dysfunctional fearand hatred of theirelders 
and that of the characters’ own retinues feelings for them. 


once an elder gets old enough, metaphor becomes 


Elders of the Camarilla live by the archaic and lifeless 
Traditions because such is the way of the vampire. Bloodsucking 
monsterscannot, should not, pretend to life. Such isaparody and 
a mockery of anything human. The Masquerade separates 
Kindred from the mortal world just 
Elysian politics separate the elders from the real concerns of the 
Kindred. The authority of the elders shares symbolically in the 
taintof Caine; they are inherently corruptand foul, representing 
the corruption of evil and the foulness of diseased blood. The 
actions of the elders cry out to Heaven for redress and for a 
cleansing; the players would do well to look for reflections of 
their characters’ actions in the dark glass the elders hold up. 


as the scrims and screens of 


EL_persas Moon 

As well as incarnating the themes of Vampire: the Mas- 
querade, using elders in a chronicle can go far to set the mood of 
the game. More than other Kindred, elders seem wrong. This 
sense of the uncanny goes far to build an atmosphere laden with 
menace and unspoken threat. Aside from the sheer unease 
caused by the blood-freezing power a sixth-generation Kindred 
commands, players should feel unnerved by the elder's appear- 
ance, by his casual inhumanities, and perhaps by the very real 
feeling that this elder is no longer even remotely human. 

Storytellers can easily create the mood of blackest para- 
noia and jealous suspicion by thrusting the characters into the 
cream of vampiric high society. A few innuendoes, a hint of a 
conspiracy, a casual snub, and the players are suddenly mad 
with envious fear of every other Kindred they meet. When the 
Storyteller can convey the idea that elders treat everything and 
everyone with that level of manic fear and hatred, then the 
mood of the elder mentality snaps firmly into place. 

Simple vileness and evil can go some distance to estab- 
lish mood. Show elders at a divertissement salon playing a 


The Guide 10 THE CaMARLLA 


220 


game of living chess or holdinga grotesque tableau vivant with 
Dominated thralls. The sparkling imagery of Elysium be- 
comes a whited sepulcher after one or two such events, and 
even the most light-hearted Toreador should feel the hateful 
brutality at the core of her existence. 


BLpeRSAS PLOT 

The greatest service that elders perform in a chronicle, of 
course, is to drive the plot. With a fistful of factions and hundreds 
of intrigues bubbling away merrily in even a medium-sized city, the 
Storyteller can hang any numberof plots and storylines on the 
interactions of various elders. Simply gaining an invitation to an 
important Toreador salon can be a roleplaying ¢hallenge that 
stretches for weeks as the characters jockey to be noticed. by the 
Toreador’s neonates (or by her rival’s),tofind some other Kindred 
with a precious favor to trade and to unwind skeins of rumor and 
overheard gossip to discern theirownstanding. On the other handy 
ifthe Storyteller wishes to throw the players headlongintothe mite. 
of Kindred upper-crust life, the characters ean be plucked from, 
obscurity by an elder looking for easily-manipulated tools. 

Within the complex economy of status, jealousy and 
prestation that governs the Camarilla, any action the ¢harac- 
ters take can have repercussions that echo for decades, fithey 
help an elder, his enemies will mark them for recruitment (as 
spies) or destruction (as threats). This will involyethem in plots 
spun by those enemies’ rivals, or their allies. Onée they have 
done other Kindred a favor, even inadvertently, the characters 
are well and truly hooked. 

Larger questions of plotoften hangon the action of the elders. 
Since elders always have some deeply hidden reason for their 
actions, and act as indirectly as possible, the Storyteller can always 
tie any loose end or red herring back into the main plot simply by 
revealing (or inventing) some elder’s heretofore-hidden hand 
behind the mystery. Not everything in the chronicle needs to be 
the elders’ fault, although the elders should certainly react to every 
major event involving the characters. These reactions can vary 
from conferringstatus (even involuntarily) on them, or mistakenly 
assuming that the coterie was working for some other elder when 
in fact the coincidence in interests was pure happenstance. 


Although it is unusual for a coterie of neonates or ancillae 
to outmaneuver an elder or think of some angle he missed, it's 
rather less unusual for a troupe of players to outthink a Story- 
tellerjuggling five plotlinesandahundred non-playercharacters. 
The Storytellercan respond tosuch asurprise in three ways. The 
first, which is the most realistic but the least satisfying, is to sav 
the elder’s bacon somehow; bring in an extra squad of ghouls or 
give the elder some heretofore unheard-of Discipline or occult 
artifact that coincidentally foils the characters’ plan. Elders 
certainly have such resources, but players reasonably object to 
seeing them only at the last minute. 

The second possibility is simply to accept it. Part of the 
elders’ weakness, after all, is their intense conservatism of 
outlook and fossilization of mind. It’s not unheard of for ancillae 
oreven neonates to develop some fresh new insightthat happens 
to solve some crisis very much to the discomfiture of a slower, 


more hidebound, elder. This is, after all, part of why elders hate 
anal fear the young: Ofyn any cocerie chachasdemonscrated 
an ability no takedown; or evenuaestously tscunveniencé;en 
elder becomes an iinmediaee manger foc every paranoid eldertn 
the court, which is to say, every elder in the court, period. This 
certainly makes the characters’ existences interesting, and gives 
the Storyteller a reason to beef up all the elders’ defenses from 
now on so that she won’t be caught that way again. 

The final option is to reveal that the characters were, unbe- 
knownstto them, followingtheagenda of another elder. Every clue 
they found, evenyhtlitisy $8flOwed upon, every mistake their 
target madewassetup by his rival. The playersstill feel the pleasure 
ofsuccess, but heirrewardisa nicely mixed one. Furthermore, such 
a denouement seryes to tiethe characters even more into elder 
politicsyand thus into further plotlines and story arcs. 


ELDERSINTHE GAME 

Unlimited power'is apt to corrupt the minds of those who 
possess it. 

William Pitt, the Elder 

Directly portraying vampiric elders can challenge both 
Storytellers and players. After all, very few roleplayers have 
‘ecenturiés of experience at intrigue, murder and court etiquette. 
Use the centfal tenets of paranoia, spite, jealousy and the all- 
importantsufface calm as your touchstones. Eldersare unfeeling, 
butonly inabad way. They embody corrupt power leashed in silk 
— predatory cats who gain far more satisfaction from playing 
With their victims than from the act of consuming them. 


PLbeRS AS STORYTELLER CHARACTERS 

‘The most important factor in playing an elder as Storyteller 
iseontrol. The elder always desires the app 
even (especially) if he is actually in a blind panicked funk over 
gome real or imaginary threat. Elders strive to keep control of 
themselves, the conversation, the flow of information and their 
networks of allies and retainers. If the elder is at court, interrupt 
discussions with the characters as messengers deliver mysterious 
tidings, or with brief greetings to some other characters of higher 
Status than the characters. If by some mischance a character 
scores a hit on an elder in conversation or innuendo, respond 
cuttingly and end the conversation. Elders do not get drawn into 
lengthy catfights or playing the dozens with upstarts. 

Keep your elders unfailingly courteous and polite, even when 
angry or vengeful. No elder will lose her sang-froid for a coterie of 
fevenile riffraff. Keep your diction elegant, your poise controlled 
and your phrasing exact. Save the full body of vampiric rage for 
climactic scenes. If the characters see an elder angry, they should 
remember it for the rest of their (most probably short) unlives. 


arance of control, 


While embodying cool, harnessed, sadistic power, how- 
ever, it is important for the Storyteller to remember that the 
elderisonstage to increase player involvement in the chronicle. 
The elder’s role in the story is to advance theme, mood or plot, 
not to give the Storyteller a cheap ego trip at his players’ 
expense. Elders can easily be overused. If the players are bored 
orresentful duringsceneswith elders, heed their message. Keep 


‘Awwis,ENewues ano Omir 


21 


CREATING AN ELDER 

Elders don’t spring wholly formed like Athena from 
the minds of their creators. They are characters with 
more backstory and history than most. Simply tossing an 
elder into your game without context is a recipe for 
disaster — there’s a great deal more to these creatures 
than just piles of Disciplines. When creating an elder, it 
pays to ask yourself the following questions about her: 

+ How old is she? 

Isshe an American elder, witness toa bare handful of 
centuries, or a relic from the days of Magna Graecia? The 
answer says a great deal about the character's perspective 
— and how she'll react toward younger Kindred. 

* Where is she from? 

An elder Embraced in Bavaria at the height of the 
Reformation is likely to have different values thanone who 
began her unlife in pre-Great Fire London or Hannibal's 
Carthage. Don’t forget to take culture and history into 
account when thinking about how the elder reacts instinc- 
tively —the first lessons learned are the last to be forgotten. 

* Where has she been? 

‘What has she experienced? Did she flee from the Inqui- 
sition personally, or did she spend the years of terror hidden in 
torpor? What other elders or famous figures hasshe met? That 
sort of thing tends to impress neonates, as well as providing 
handy reference points for in-character reminiscences. 

There are other questions along these lines that can be 
useful as well. Plotting out the elder’s enemies, putative allies, 
preferences, quirks, childer and whatnot help fill in the gaps, 
and provides you with hooks on which to hang future stories. 
In the end, what your elder’s Disciplines are, how many dots 
she has in each Attribute and so on — all of these things pale 
in importance when compared to figuring out who the elders. 


the elders in the shadows or across the salon floor. Their actions 
shouldconveyasense of mysterious menace, notoverfamiliarity 
or pointless dominance games held over the players’ heads. 


ELpeRS AS PLAYER CHARACTERS 

Players should pay attention to the roleplaying hints 
given above for Storytellers if called upon to portray elders in 
a chronicle. The central themes of control overlaying jeal- 
ousy, of corruption eating away at tradition and of fear 
paralyzing power should be foremost in any player's mind as 
he adopts the role of an elder of the Camarilla. 


A chronicle where one player plays an elder and the 
other characters are lower in status can create problems. The 
“central” player can wind up annoying the others, especially 
if he abuses his authority and acts petty and spiteful. Never 
mind that an actual elder would do exactly that, it's no fun to 
play. Consider troupe play, where the players take turns 
portraying the elder in the coterie, as a possible solution. 
Another solution is to allow all the players to take the role of 


elders. An all-elder chronicle can be too high-powered for 
some Storytellers, but the key is to develop threats suffi- 
ciently calibrated to the characters’ exalted status. 

If the players are mature enough to handle great in- 
character power, and the Storyteller creative enough to 
develop enough games of politics and intrigue (the ban on 
violence and Disciplines in Elysium can redress the balance 
somewhat here, too) or high-tension threats involving major 
foes, however, an all-elder game can be an exciting change 
from the endless round of manipulation and shadow-boxing. 

Let the players take the roles of the primogen of the city; 
the Storyteller can spend a few sessions letting them get a feel 
for their new domain, exercising authority, judging salons, 
having nosy reporters or FBI agents killed with a languid wave 
of the hand to thirsty ancillae. Then, of course, the dread 
beast of politics rears its head. Clan differences may impel the 
players into maneuvering amongst themselves. If the players 
don’t take each other's betrayal and conspiracy personally, 
this nicely solves the Storyteller’s problem of threat calibra- 
tion. Ifthe players prefer coterie unity, however, facing down 
the Sabbat presents more than enough challenge. For mys- 
tery, the Storyteller might send the elders after the 
Antediluvians; for a more spiritual campaign, she could 
spotlight the blissful temptations of the Inconnu. Every elder 
harbors centuries of stories — why not your chronicle, too? 


THe INCONNU 


There's a presence hovering over this city, watching. I can feel 
itwhen I walk the supposedly empty streets. I can sense it when I'm 
in the mob at Elysium. And 1 can almost hear its voice whispering 
to me in the early hours before dawn, just before I fall asleep. 

1 think the voice tells me things, too, when I'm sleeping. It's 
indescribably old and sad, and it tells me stories from this town's not 
particularly illustrious history. | wake up everynightand there's another 
memory, another image of something that happened a hundred years 
ago, fading at the edges of my mind. There's no way I could possibly 
know what color tie His Majesty was wearing when he staked out his 
sire, back in the year 1874, but I have these visions, and ask around, 
and damned if I haven't seen the thing just as it happened. 

It scares me, I think. It scares me that this presence, this 
power, has been watching the city for so long, and it scares me that 
now it's watching me. I'd like to think, in my more optimistic 
moments, that it's watching me because it’s lonely, and wants to 
share some of what it's seen with someone. If you buy that 
argument, it’s picked me because I’m small and insignificant in 
the grand vampiric scale of things, and it doesn’t matter if | know 
these things because, frankly, no one cares about me. 

The other possibility — that I'm being watched because I'm 
going to do something worth watching — is what really scares me. 

Ask a hundred Kindred what the Inconnu are really up to, 
and you'll get two hundred different answers. The sect remains, 
mysteriousand omnipresent, in the background ofevery vampire’s 
thoughts. The fact that the Inconnu don’t seem to do anything 
is maddening to other vampires. Plot and counterplot, thrust, 


‘Tet GUDE TO THE CAMARILLA 


222 


parry and riposte — vampires are used to that sort of thing. In a 
strange way, the endless dance of intrigue and conflict is com- 
forting; everyone knows what to expect, after all. 

But the Inconnu don’t play those sorts of games. They 
do, as far as the average Kindred can see, nothing. And that 
drives the rest of the vampiric community insane with curios- 
ity — primarily because no one who's been Embraced for 
more than an hour can believe that beings so old and so 
potent could refrain from engaging in the same sorts of games 
that the rest of the vampires play 

Perhaps this perspective isa failure of vampiric perspective: 
younger vampires simply can't conceive of their wiser elders 
being like anything but themselves. Perhaps the Inconnu 
simply do sit, and watch, and in some cases seek Golconda 
endlessly. Perhaps... 


But there’s no one out there who believes it 


Wuat Are THey? 

rTechinically:queabeingy the Tigani wre Astle inlet & 
acpi sertas thy sna soe fabii initial spect 
So far as anyone knows, there is no Inner Circle of Inconnu, no 
grand and terrible gathering of grand and terrible vampires 
deciding the fate of the sect. Instead, the Inconnu — on those 
fades acai hene aape denie lnbeliabieichs 
seem to be a loosely affiliated band of individuals, brought 
together by shared interest and experience but distanced by a 
healthy arani zapeci of nae anckhers power Cartall 
Golconda seems to be on the agenda of many members of the 
sect, but “seems tobe" isn't quite enough to ensure mutual safety 
when two incredibly powerful Kindred get a little too close 

Most often, sn Inconniissenuedsimplyasapresencé,afeeling 
of ineffable power lurking in the background whenever a too- 
icicqulstive: trespasser comit near the vampice’s dwelling. Even 
anelai paenby often pet: some foarren of chi afer, which 
ezla ár lanet acmak the supposedly “haunted” or "emed 
placesin the world. Many members of the sect have gone to ground 
somewhere and stayed in that spot for centuries (See “Monitors,” 
p. 225), though only a select few choose cities in which to dwell 
The remainder prefer isolated and rural locations, often outside the 
purviewolevericehersupernsnzal cresnures Inconnurezest from. 
society 10 be distinetlyalone and thes caee thar notionseriously. 
‘What good is solitude for purpases of contemplating Golconda if 
ancillae are poking around the haven every other year or so? 

In the end, then, the Inconnu are the Kindred’s favorite 
homegrown mystery, always present to be debated, but never rousing 
themselves toactand thusdisproveanyone'spet theoriesabout chem, 
Tia arange sense the Inconmuere ainoa acomibeting presence to 
their younger brethren, aslumbering volcano in the distance that the 
icali simakuansusly respect andl fess. No, the vampires- of the 


Camarilla most assuredly donot want the Inconnu to start playingan 


active role in vampiric society, but their quiet presence is more 
pleasant to contemplate than, say, the possible machinations of the 
Antediluvians. The Inconnu are the figurative “devil you know,” 
though that knowledge is ever soslight — and even among Kindred, 
the devil you know is better than the one you don’t 


‘Aus, ENewes AND OTHERS 


223 


Fear 

Any sane Kindred (and any Malkavian as well) has a 
healthy fear for the Inconnu. Everyone knows they canact, and 
act decisively —it’s just that they don’t. Paranoid sires tell their 
childer stories of entire towns (or in more grandiose versions, 
cities) wiped clean of their vampiric populations for some 
slight, real or imagined, against the Inconnu. As to whether or 
not these stories are true, let itsuffice to say that it’s hard to find 
evidence against them — which makes the tales all the more 
terrifying to particularly imaginative Kindred. 


The likelihood is that the Inconnu themselves started 
those rumors (and may even have backed one ortwoof them up, 
just to prove the point) to ensure that younger Kindred have 
and maintain a gut-wrenching fear of what the Inconnu just 
might do. While this tactic might seem to deprive the Inconnu 
of potential helpers or allies, the truth is that should assistance 
be required, the Inconnu can no doubt compel it. Furthermore, 
the terror that these ancient Kindred inspire is sufficient to 
deter any number of would-be diablerists intent on potent 
Inconnu vitae. While the odds are that very few, ifany, of these 
seekers would survive their quests, it’s easier for the Inconnu 
never have to deal with them at all. As for those latter-day 
Troiles whom the stories don't discourage, even they are 
sufficiently affected by the tales to be hindered in their hunts by 
the effects of raw fear. A hunter who isdistracted by legends and 
jumping at shadows soon becomes e 


sy prey himself 


History 

The Inconnu as a sect only came to prominence during the 
centuries immediately preceding the formation of the Camarilla 
and Sabbat; some historians claim that the Inconnu “formalized” 
asa result of those events. Older Kindred remember the Inconnu 


in those days.as being described as remnants of the Roman order, 
vampires who had flourished under the Pax Romana et Vampirica 
and who felt displaced in the subsequent chaos. Precisely how the 
secthasevolved since then — particularly as regards its members? 
total rejection of the Jyhad and all its works — is shrouded in 
mystery. Again, the moment of decision would seem to be the 
mid-15th century, but that is sheerest conjecture. 


Time AND THE INCONNU 
Part of the mystery of the Inconnu is their sense of scale, 
one so grand that it is simply beyond the 


comprehension of 
younger Kindred. A decade or even a century is nothing to 
one of these ancients. Matters of ultimate urgency to neo- 
nates and ancillae are like mayflies to them, gone in a matter 
of moments. In a sense, the Inconnu are to younger vampires 
what those vampires are to mortals — just as an ancilla sees 
things from a much longer perspective than de 
does an Inconnu see things from a much longer perspective 
thana young vampire. The impending overthrow of a prince, 
anarch revolutions, Ravnos infestations — all those things 


‘sa human, so 


that are matters of life and death to neonates and ancillae 
alike — are mere eyeblinks to the Inconnu, no more worthy 
of attention than a mortal mayoral election is to a Kindred 
Embraced a century ago. Indeed, it would not be too far- 


fetched to say that one of the great frustrations Kindred have 
in dealing with the Inconnu is that the sect treats younger 
vampires exactly as they are accustomed to treating others — 
and that even elders are a lot better at dishing out that sort of 
thing than receiving it. 


INTERFERENCE 

The question of whether or not the Inconnu interfere in 
Camarilla society isone that has plagued the Camarilla since its 
inception. The consensus among Camarilla vampires seems to 
be “Yes, they do interfere, but we don't know how —and that’s 
what terrifies us.” The perceived hand of the Inconnu is 
everywhere, causing neonates and elders alike to react to the 
supposed manipulations of the mysterious sect. Further actions 
are taken to prepare against the (theoretically inevitable) day 
when the Inconnu do wish to take an active role. 


So, by dint of others’ reactions, paranoid fantasies and 


plans, the Inconnu do indeed affect the Camarilla on a 
nightly basis. On the other hand, the question of whether the 
Inconnu themselves actually do anything in addition to 
inspiring frenzies of activity remains debatable. This, presum- 
ably, is exactly the way the Inconnu like it 

On an individual basis, meetings with members of the 
walks away from 


Inconnu are rare and portentous. No one 


meeting a Methuselah unchanged, though whether the change 
is for the better or the worse is debatable. Encounters with 
Inconnu have specific purposes: warnings, threats, the odd mo- 
ment of congratulation and the occasional recruitment onto the 


path of Golconda. Such encounters are more like audiences than 


discussions; the power dynamic in a room always tilts precipi- 


ously toward the Methuselah, Regardless of a given meetin 
purpose, the sense of awe and power than an Inconnu brings to 
the table inevitably has an impact. Few vampires ever willingly 
speak of their contact with Inconnu, though whether this reti- 
cence grows out of fear, respect or compulsion no one 


an say. 


GOLCONDA 

One of the most prevalent rumors about the Inconnu is 
that some/most/all of them have achieved the semi-mythical 
state known as Golconda. While official Camarilla policy on 
Golconda is that it isa pleasant myth, that same policy subtly 
discourages anyone from diverting his energies from the sect 
ing that myth out. As a result, the notion that the 
mingly have the key to whatever Golconda 
might be (and trying to get consensus on that matter is like 
collecting hen’s teeth) makes them slightly suspect in a 
fashion completely unrelated to their monstrous power. 


to see 


Inconnu se 


Basic theory on Golconda is that it is the state wherein a 
vampire masters and tames his Beast, rendering himself im- 
mune tots ravagesand frenzies. The effects this mastery hason 
, Rotschreck and so on are 


matters such as vampiric hunge 


open to debate among vampiric theorists (Golconda studies 
beingsecond only to Noddist lore asa popular field for unliving 
scholars). Thus, it is no surprise that knowledge of this myste- 
rious philosophy isascribed to this mysterioussect of vampires. 


The GUIDE TO THe CAMARILLA 


224 


EveRYBODY Knows 

Very few — perhaps a dozen — Kindred actually 
know what Monitors are. A bare handful more are 
even aware of their existence, and all of those are 
predictably close-mouthed about the subject. It’s not 
that Monitors go door to door advising other vampires 
not to speak about them; rather, it’s that Kindred who 
blather to others about mysterious Inconnu monitor- 
ing entire cities tend to be ignored, mocked or silenced. 
Whether the Inconnu themselves are behind this 
uniformly negative reaction is a matter of quiet debate 
among those “in the know,” but no one’s willing to risk 
his immortal neck to test the hypothesis. 

On the other hand, a great many younger Kin- 
dred, particularly those with Auspex, report uncanny, 
undirected feelings of being watched, particularly in 
cities where a Monitor is present. There’s also a 
prevalence of unquiet or nightmarish dreamingamong 
these vampires, presumably a result of their fragile 
minds being touched by the Monitor’s roving will. 
Unsolicited bits of memory and conjecture acciden- 
tally dropped into a neonate’s mind in this fashion can 
give the young vampire remarkable insight — or set 
her up as a target because she knows too much. 


On one level it makes sense that a majority of the 
Inconnu have in fact achieved Golconda; ultimate enlight- 
enment would seem a better reason than most that the 
Methuselahs don’t constantly interfere with or hunt their 
distant descendants. The isolation and desolation that the 
Inconnu demand of their havens also seem to lend them- 
selves to contemplation, not distraction — a necessary 
prerequisite to Golconda, one would think. Furthermore, 
whispered conversations between those Kindred who have in 
fact met — knowingly or unawares — members of the 
Inconnu often agree on one point: the utter serenity and calm 
that seemingly radiated from the Methuselah. 

Itiscommonly accepted rumorthat membersofthe Inconnu 
who have attained enlightenment do in fact rouse themselves to 
seek disciples on the path to Golconda. The recruitment process 
can take years or centuries —some Kindred have reported being 


approached a half-dozen times over a half-dozen centuries. Other 
times, the target of the attempt is a freshly Embraced neonate of 
exceptional potential or lineage, as the Methuselah seeks to pre- 
empt centuries of torment and blood by starting the prize catch 
down the “right road” early. Coercion is never used in these 
matters. One cannot be forced onto the road to Golconda, only 
convinced to travel it for oneself. 


Kindred who accept the Inconnu’s blandishments on the 
matter make a point of setting their unliving affairs in order and 
then disappearing, presumably to join their new teachers in the 
wilderness. Such tidy disappearancesare unsettlingtothe Kindred!’s 


“survivors,” and since many students of Golconda never return 
home, a sinister air can sometimes shroud the whole process. 
Most of these disciplesare never heard from again, though debate 
rages as to whether the vanished ones then take up positions 
among the Inconnu, change identities or simply are destroyed as 
part of the Inconnu’ sinister, hidden plots. 

Inconnu who hold the position of Monitor, it should be 
noted, never take students on the road to Golconda. They 
have other concerns and duties, and can offer none of what 
a true seeker after Golconda needs. 


Monitors 


Ifa younger Kindred comes in contact with a member of 
the Inconnu atall (a highly unlikely proposition at best), odds 
are that the one he meets is a city’s Monitor. While the vast 
majority of Inconnu ensconce themselves in havens far from 
the hustle and bustle of the cities — not to mention the 
younger vampires therein — a few members of the sect pick for 
themselves a certain metropolis and become its Monitor. 
Birth, breeding and long habit have no bearing on a Monitor's 
choice of home — the Monitor of Chicago, for example, has 
spent only a tiny fraction of her unlife in the city. Instead, the 
selection seems dictated by factors invisible to less experienced 
observers; panicked rumors lay the blame at the feet of Noddist 
prophecies, patterns of ley lines, instructions from Caine 
himself and, most disturbingly, the notion that in places where 
the Methuselahs sleep, the Inconnu are bound to watch. 

Be that as it may, once a Monitor chooses a city she is 
bound to it for, if not the remainder of her existence, then at 
aconsiderable portion of it. Itis her duty to observe all that 
goes on in that city, the overt as well as the hidden, and more 
importantly, to understand it. So far as anyone (other than the 
Inconnu know) there is no system whereby a Monitor turns in 
reports or makes presentations. It is simply the Monitor’s duty 
to know — and somehow, the other Inconnu who need to 
know what she knows always seem to have that information as 
well. More than one recently relocated Kindred has found 
himself confronted with a mysterious stranger who seems to 
know entirely too much about his past... 

In general, Monitors do not ever interfere with the 
course of events in their cities. There is no oath of noninter- 
ference taken, no geas against meddling, but it is understood 
that Monitors are in place to watch, not to act. Like most 
customs of the Kindred, this one is honored as much in the 
breach as in the observance, as many Monitors find them- 
selves irresistibly drawn to interfere in the actions of a 
younger vampire who reminds them of a lover, a friend, a 
childe or perhaps even a long-ago version of themselves. 
Such dalliances are usually brief —no more than three or four 
decades in duration —and never of the sort to impact directly 
the greater flow of events in the city. A Monitor may bend her 
principles to protect a favorite from a random attack by a no- 
account Caitiff, but rarely will she so much as lift a finger to 
shelter him from a blood hunt. 


least 


Atus, Enemies AND OTHERS 


225 


Mow A 


INTERACTIONS AND LOCATIONS 

Contrary to what one might expect, a Monitor usually has 
but a single haven from which to observe his charge. A Monitor's 
haven is usually central to the urban area he is responsible for,and 
more often than not located beneath some sort of public or 
historical building — one that is not likely to draw excessive 
visitors, but which has enough traffic to ensure its continued 
existence. Any vampire who wanders into a Monitor's home by 
accident is subtly compelled by a form of Presence (difficulty 10 
to resist the suggestion) to exit as quickly as possible, satisfied as 
tothe generally benign and empty nature of the place. That isnot 


to say that Monitors’ havens are undefended most have 


effective, if not technologically sophisticated, traps and safe 
guards in serried ranks. Monitors don’t, however, have obtrusive 
or extensive networks of vampiric, ghoul or mortal servants 
the whole point of the position, after all, is to watch everyone 
What ghouls a Monitor is likely to keep are animal in form, 
though these creatures are invariably centuries old, supernatu 
rally intelligent and gifted with Disciplines. (See Ghouls: Fatal 
Addiction for more information on animal ghouls.) 
Encounters with a Monitor follow only one rule: The 
Monitor never identifies himself as such. On those exceedingly 
rare occasions when a Monitor feels he absolutely must talk with 
a younger Kindred — or is caught socially outside his haven 
he creates a false identity, usually that of an anarch or a traveler 


just passing through the city. The wise Monitor has a whole set 


MonrrorsoF Nott 
No one is sure precisely how many Monitors there 
actually are, as only a few have ever revealed themselves. 
Some of those who have been identified as such are 
* Rebekah, Monitor of Chicago — Rebekah is per 
haps the most public of the Monitors, having dabbled 
repeatedly in Chicago's tumultuous affairs. She makes her 
haven atthe city'saquarium, a localé entirely too accessible 
to make her sectmates happy 
OfalltheInconnu, 
Mahatma seems most closely interested in Saulot’s many 
legacies. She speaks fondly of having known Saulot him 
self, at least in the company of her fellow Inconnu, and has 


Mahatma, Monitorof Istanbul 


acted on multiple occasions to assist his descendants. 

e Maltheas the Ventrue — Maltheas was last seen in 
attendance at the Convention of Thorns. Since then his 
whereaboutsand even his continued existence are matters of 
conjecture. The theory in vogue among survivors of that 
long-ago parley is that Maltheas, rather than Monitoring 
single city, casts his unsleeping gaze over the Camarilla itsel 

© Dondinni, Monitor of Genoa — Dondinni is 
among the most active of the Inconnu, fully convinced 
that Gehenna is imminent and zealously involved in 
searching for evidence to that effect. The Daughters of 
Cacophony in particular worry him, and members of that 
bloodline find his city to be an inhospitable place. 


of additional auras (See Auspex, p.84) prepared for such situa- 
tions, if not a set of new visages (See Obfuscate, p. 91). As it’s 
highly unlikely that anyone in a given city is likely to have the 
power to pierce the powersan Inconnu brings to bear, it’snot very 
hard for a Monitor to wrap himself in protective illusions. 

A Monitor interacts with vampires outside of her sect on 
her terms only. That means she arranges the time and place 
of the meeting, and then nine times out of 10 sets things up 
so that the interaction appears coincidental. Most Monitors 
are plain-spoken; they have no patience for cryptic state- 
ments or convoluted riddles. The risk inherent in 
compromising her observer's position by interacting with the 
ones she is observing is too great; a Monitor has no interest in 
being Delphically obtuse. Centuries of observation have 
taught the Inconnu that plain information travels the best 
and with the least misinterpretation. No Monitor wants to 
risk coming out of hiding, only to have the ancilla she speaks 
to completely miss the point of what she was trying to say. 


DISTRIBUTION 

Notevery city hasa Monitor. Truth be told, precious few do, 
and those metropolitan areas blessed (or cursed) with such tend 
to be hotbeds of all sorts of vampiric activity. Once a Monitor 
chooses a locale to settle in, she stays there — forever. There are 
no vacations, no nights away; everything that goes on must be 
observed. There is also only one Monitor per city. While Moni- 
tors-in-place don’t go out of their way to advertise their presence, 
they do subtly and psychically encourage other would-be observ- 
ers to go elsewhere. No one, not even the Inconnu, know exactly 
which cities hold Monitors and how long those Kindred have 


STORYTELLING WITHTHE INCONNU 

While it may be tempting to drop one or two 
Methuselahs into yourchronicle, just toshow uppity ancillae 
exactly how steep the World of Darkness’ power curve 
really is, a wise Storyteller refrains from doing so. Familiar- 
ity breeds contempt, and the more times characters see a 
member of the Inconnu, the more the awe he should 
inspires diminishes. Once a band of neonates — or even 
ancillae or elders — gets chummy with a member of the 
Inconnu, there’s no way to resurrect the impact this incred- 
ibly old, incredibly powerful and incredibly alien creature 
should have. Appearances by Inconnu should be rare, brief 
and telling — only matters of the gravest import should be 
able to coax one of these vampiric recluses out of hiding. 

A better tack to take is to hint at Inconnu interest or 
interference — a shadowy observer here, an anonymous 
message there and above all an ominous sense of being 
observed. Above all, the sense of mystery the Inconnu 
project must be maintained, else they become just another 
set of powerful vampires/antagonists/mentors/whatever. Re- 
member: The Inconnu have baffled the Camarilla for five 
centuriesand more. They should be able tohold your players 
back from their secrets as well. 


been in place; Mahatma of Istanbul is reasonably certain she has 
the longest tenureamong current Monitors, but then reflects that 
inheryouth she feltsomehow discouraged from the idea of taking 
up residence in at least three other cities. 


GHOULS 


My master loves me. 

I know this because he gives me his blood. He doles it out slowly, 
drop by drop, and he tells me to stand absolutely still while it drips on 
my tongue like liquid ecstasy. If I so much as move or make a sound 
he stops, and it’s worse than torture having him take the blood away. 

Tknow he loves me because if he didn’t, he wouldn't spend the 
time to do that for me. He'd just leave a mason jar full of his vitae 
in the refrigerator, like he does for the other ghouls. I don’ tlike them. 
They all think the master loves them as much as he loves me, and 
he doesn’t. It makes me angry, their thinking they can come 
between me and him. I'm the one whom he trusts to spy on his 
enemies, I'm the one he feeds from when he can’ tisk going outside, 
I'm the one he trusts. They're just servants. I'm something more. 

He loves me, you see. And that's why, in the end, he'll forgive me 
when he sees what I've done to make sure that no one comes between us. 

Ever. 

One of the fundamental differences between the 
Camarilla and the Sabbat is the former’s policy of working, 
whenever possible, through mortals instead of running 
roughshod over them. A literal manifestation of that willing- 
ness to work with mortals isthe Camarilla’s reliance upon the 
half-human class of creatures called ghouls. Whereas the 
Sabbat (save the tradition-minded Tzimisce) shun and de- 
spise ghouls, the Camarilla regards them as vital cogs in the 
sect’s machinery. Without the still-living ghouls, who would 
oversee the Masquerade in the daylight hours? Who would 
take care of the thousand dangling details that plague a 
vampire’s existence? And who would move against the sect’s 
enemies, external and internal, during those hours when all 
Kindred sleep, if not for the ghouls? 

In truth, ghouls are integral to the Camarilla’s existence 
and function. All of the grandiose plans laid by elders depend 
ona hundred small tasks being done properly — tasks that are 
inevitably entrusted to ghouls. Maintaining the Masquerade 
would also be impossible without ghoul assistance. The 
dozens of tiny tears that the fabric of the deception develops 
each year are best and most subtly stitched up from within the 
mortal community; a ghouled police captain or newspaper 
editor can repair a breach of the Masquerade reflexively, 
without fear of engendering further incidents. They are only 
human, after all. 


Wuatisa GHOUL? 

In brief, a ghoul isa mortal being who has ingested Kindred 
vitae. While the term “ghoul” usually refers to a human being, 
animals of any sort can be ghouled (witness the horrific swarms 
of ghouled zicaguitoes and flies hovering around the,average 
Nosferatu). Odds are, however, that if someone uses the term 
“ghoul” she means a human being — more or les. 


‘Aues,Enewes AND OTHERS 


227 


Thereare many benefits to becominga ghoul —retarded 
aging; increased strength, speed and stamina; inhumanly fast 
healing and on occasion, the chance to learn some basic 
vampiric Disciplines. The deal does have its down side 
s abilities comes a 


blood 


a mortal takes 


however — part and parcel with a 

slavering addiction to vitae, the likelihood of bei 

bound and the fact that by becomin, 

an irrevocable half-step into the world of the Camarilla 

There is no turning back once that first sip of vitae goes down 

at that point the ghoul becomes a walking, talkin 

of the Masquerade. The only two options are to go forward in 

hopesof the Embrace or to remain still, asa 

is to invite death in the name of protecting the Masquerade 
e information on the powers, flaws and other 

ghouls, see Ghouls: Fatal Addiction. 


SELECTING THE VICTIM 

The Traditions prevent a Camarilla vampire from vigor 
ously Embracing anyone she feels like, but that still leaves the 
question of how a law-abiding vampire can exert her influ 
The best 


solution to this quandary is through judicious and appropriate 


ence on the mortal institutions that interest her 


ghouling. Camarilla vampires are prevented by custom, peer 
pressure and occasional princely fiat from creating too many 


ghouls — there are only so many worthwhile mortals tc 


round, after all — so they have to make the ones they pick 


count. Competition for prize humans has gotten so fierce in 


Too Many GHouLs 
While the limitson creating ghouls are not quite asstrict 
for Camarilla vampires as are the limitations on bestowing 
the Embrace, there’s still a common sense factor involved. 
Maintaininga ghoul takes blood. Maintaining lot of ghouls 
takesa lotof blood. A vampire who surrenders a great deal of 
blood to ghouls every month needs to feed that much more 
tomake up for the voluntary donations. Additional feedings 
leads to additional corpses, and more chances to break the 
Masquerade, and so on. ... Most Kindred prefer to keep a few 
trusted ghouls. It’s easier, safer and less wearing that way 
In addition, the wider a Kindred’s network of ghouls 
is, the more suspicion she garners from her peers. A 
vampire with too many eyes on the street and too many 
hands to do her bidding is a danger to others of her kind 
pure and simple. Asa result, there are frequent “prunings” 
of ambitious Kindred's retainers and the like 
some places that “bag limits” have been imposed (See A 
World of Darkness: Second Edition, p. 16) 
There are three factors that determine a mortal’s potential 
ghouled: position, talentand availability. The first refers 
towhatexactly the mortal does. Ishea judge who can squash cases 


ns? What about a local 


sports figure who, by dint of his vitae-given advantages, can 


that might expose vampiric shenani 


improve his team’s fortunes and finances (not to mention all 


those involved in industries ancillary to the team)? Perhaps a 
muckraking newspaper reporter can be convinced, aftera taste of 
the vitae, to go dig up someone else's secrets. And so it goes, with 
the highest placed mortals attracting the most vampiric atten- 
tion. Oftentimes, a particularly pivotal mortal is left alone by 
agreement amongseveral vampires who previously competed for 
his allegiance, the idea being that it is better to have no one 
control him than tohavea rival doso. Notall ghoulsare selected 
forlong-termcultivation, either—thereare plenty oftimeswhen 
a particular mortal (say, an underdog prize fighter on whom a 
vampire has bet heavily) isuseful now, but won'tbe in six months. 
Such mortals 
only of concern for a brief and shining moment. 


are ghouled, then thrown away — their position is 


The second criterion is talent. The Toreador and Ventrue 
(and on an entirely different level, the Nosferatu) are past 
masters at spotting the potential in a mortal who has not yet 
made hername, and plucking that flower for themselves. There 
are also specific skills — accounting, computer literacy and the 
intricacies of modern law, just to name three — that many 
Kindred find beyond their experience, and as such they look to 
human beings with the skill sets they need to handle those 
affairs. Such ghoulsare often left in place to pursue their normal 
lives, more or less, and are summoned by their masters only in 
need or to refresh the blood bond. It makes sense to do it that 
way, after all — why pay to support a ghoul full-time when he 
can be at your beck and call 24/7 while still payinghis own way? 

That beingsaid, thereare any number of Kindred whodon't 
want their staff getting too far from them. Ventrue, for example, 
prefer to have certain ghouls with access to vital financial 
information kept on a very short leash. Such ghouls “disappear” 
from the mortal world (often with theable assistance of till other 
ghouls, who have performed this sort of extraction before) and 
become immersed in the world of the Camarilla. 

The third, and least quantifiable, criterion for a Camarilla 
vampire ghouling someone is simply opportunity. A Toreador 
who sees a mortal too beautiful to pass up may ghoul her in lieu 
of Embracingher;a Nosferatu may ghoul terminally ill vagrant 
out of pity and to create a debt of gratitude. Such ghouls rarely 
stick with their creators long, as the vampires tend totire of their 
creations of the moment rather quickly. Even the supposedly 
civilized vampires of the Camarilla have no qualms about 
destroying their ghouls if the ghouls provide unsatisfactory 
service, grow too erratic, seek to escape servitude or simply 
catch a vampire in a bad mood. 

A rare few ghoulsare created asa sort of probationary status, 
to see if they're worthy of the Embrace. Most ghouls think this 
notion applies to them, that they're going to be next to ascend to 
immortality. The actual percentage of ghouls being groomed for 
Kindred status is tiny, but the Camarilla allows its servants to 
hope. It keeps them in line that much more efficiently. 


Uses Ann ABUSES 
The Camarilla uses ghouls for a wide variety of tasks, 
usually those too menial, repetitive or dangerous for the 


GHOULS OF CONVENIENCE 

Sometimes mortals receive the blood just because it’s 
too annoying to do anything otherwise. The owner and 
bouncer of a Kindred’s favorite club, for example, are prime 
targets for this sort of thing. The vampire is there five nights 
a week and has to go through the charade of pretending to 
be mortal eachand every night. Sooner or later, itgets boring 
and tiresome, and there's always the possibility of a slip. It’s 
much easier just to ghoul both the bouncer and the owner 
(and maybe a bartender as well, who can then be persuaded 
to stock suitable refreshment) and sidestep the whole pro- 
cess. Ditto for the human who comes to read the electric 
meter on the haven and other such routine mortal annoy- 
ances. The only hitch with this sort of thing is that there are 
probably six or seven other vampires who have exactly the 
same idea, and competition for ghouls, regardless of their 
utility, can get fatally vicious. 


Kindred themselves to attend to. While ghouls of particular 
expertise or use are handled with kid gloves — no Toreador 
wants her pet sculptor having a fit of jealous pique with a 
blowtorch in hand — the ruck and run of the “half-bloods” 
are treated like the vampiric equivalent of the hired help. 


Manuat LABOR 

Just because someone is dead doesn’t mean that she doesn’t 
have errands to run and minor details to tend to. While trips to 
the DMV and the grocery store might be replaced bya run tothe 
hardware store for lightproofing supplies, the principle remains 
the same. There's too much to do, and only 12 hours a night to 
do it in. That means that Camarilla vampires need someone to 
take care of the necessaries, and that someone is inevitably a 
ghoul. Errand boy is actually a position of more trust than one 
might think; a ghoul who brings back faulty materials for 
rendering his mistress’ haven lightproof is in a great deal of 
trouble — assuming his mistress survives the consequences of 
his mistake. Some particularly cautious Kindred even prefer to 
have systems of drop-offs and package pickups for their ghouls, 
thus lessening the chance that an unobservant delivery ghoul 
might be followed back home. 

The Kindred also employ their ghouls for carpentry and 
construction projects, rather than trust outsiders. It is a far better 
thingtohave your booby-trapsand secret chambers constructed by 
those who love and trust you absolutely. After all, there is no such 
thingasa truly independent contractor in the World of Darkne: 


PeRsonat ATTENDANCE 

Toreador aren't the only vain vampires, and it isn’t just the 
Degenerates who have gaggles of ghouls devoted to grooming 
them. The habit’s been picked up by the Ventrue as well, 
particularly those looking to make a splash before the prince. 
Ghoulish personal attendants are much-loved, if they do their 
jobs well. A ghoul whocan makea vampire look good and, more 
importantly, feel good about the way he looks, is an invaluable 
asset. Some Toreador spend literally hours gazing at their own 


ALLES Enemies AND OTHERS 


229 


reflections as their favorite ghouls pamper and preen them, lost 
in the ever-lovelier vision of themselves. Ghouls of this sort 
often travel with their regnants as well, tending to the slightest 
displaced tress or misplaced fold of cloth, and a vampire thus 
attended will makea tremendous production out of the fact that 
she is being tended so completely. Pity, then, the ghoul who 
doesn’t quite measure up to her mistress’ groomingstandards. 


Extra Eves, 

one can be two places at once, though some elders 
may give the idea their very best effort. Ghouls, on the other 
hand, can serve as a vampire’s eyes-on-the-ground. A few 
loyal ghouls scattered throughout a city can pick up an awful 
lot of information during the course of a single day, then 
distill that knowledge for their regnant’s benefit. Nosferatu 
and, surprisingly, Toreador love to set their ghouls up as 
living security cameras. Such ghouls can go weeks or even 
years before being called on to report, but in the meantime 
they are still out there, constantly watching. 


PROCUREMENT 

Many of the vampires of the Camarilla enjoy the very 
process of the Hunt — the chase, the subtlety, the sheer artistry 
of it and finally, the taste of vitae flavored with fear or arousal. 
Then there are those Kindred who, for whatever reason —a lack 
of skill at covering up, a nasty habit of frenzying or even just the 
press of the schedule — honestly don’t have the inclination togo 
stalking the rain-slicked streets in search of sustenance. They'd 
rather order takeout, as it were. That’s where the ghouls come in. 

Doing procurement work for a Kindred is a dangerous and 
dirty job. It is no less than the kidnapping of human beings on a 
regular basis, and in all probability acting as the accessory to a 
great many murders as well. To be trusted to bring home supper 
for one's regnant means that a ghoul has nerves of steel and very 
little that is human left to him — in addition to whatever skills 
are required for the pickups. Ventrue in particular like to give this 
chore to their most trusted ghouls, saving them the trouble of 
having to hunt in accordance with their prey exclusion. A ghoul 
who'strained tobring home the rightsort ofbacon can savea busy 
Ventrue many precious hours, and may well be rewarded forsuch. 

However, it is not lost on the Kindred that ghouls who 
go out hunting for them are honing the skills that might 
someday allow those ghouls to hunt the Kindred themselves. 
Any vampire who lets his ghouls hunt for him is constantly 
trapped between the necessity of having competent help and 


the danger that too-competent help represents. 


WETWORK AND Dirty Deeps 

The vampires of the Camarilla don't like to risk their 
immortal necks, which means when there’s a possibility that 
they'll get hurt, they try to send in the ghouls instead. The 
philosophy isn’t quite as callous as it seems; a trained group of 
ghouls should be able to handle any mortal threat and a fair 


number of supernatural ones as well. A single ghoul may or may 
not be the equal of a vampire (though in a tussle between an 
experienced ghoul and a neonate, it pays to put your money on 
the mortal), but four heavily armed and practiced ghouls can 
extract a troublesome anarch from a crowded restaurant with a 
minimum of mess and bloodshed. Ghouls also make the perfect 
agents for more stereotypical intimidation techniques, as wellas 
for taking out unsuspecting hunters. The average field Inquisi- 
tor isn't necessarily looking for an enemy who breathes, after all. 
When wartime comes, however, things get more serious. 
The Sabbat’s great advantage is in the sheer number of vampires 
they can bring to the fight; ghouls are the Camarilla's only hope 
of countering that weapon. Hopefully, the number of mortals the 
Camarilla throws into the line can stem the assault’s tide, buying 
the Kindred the timethey need to mount their otherdefenses.On 
a more macabre note, if the worst happens, dead ghouls in the 
street are much less of a threat to the Masquerade than dead 
neonates. Even in defeat, the Traditions must be observed. 
Ghouls offer the Camarilla another, decided advantage on 
the attack: The ability to move and fightduring daylight. When. 
the Camarilla decides it’s time for a counterstrike, it’s ghouls 
who go in under the cover of sunlight. If the assault goes well, 
the ghouls catch their opponents at their sluggish worst, and an 
entire war party can be cleaned out in a matter of bare minutes 


Focmoreon the Camarilla’sstrategiesand tactics, seep. 118. 


HOLDING To One's Drace 

Invaluable yetinferior —thatdichotomy sums upghouls’ 
place in the Camarilla. The sect would crumble literally 
overnight were it to be deprived of its half-human servants, 
but the fact remains that they are ser 
definition and by blood. Ghouls have no rights under the 
Camarilla save what their regnantschoose to grant them, and 
the right of destruction can be invoked at any time. 


nts — lesser beings by 


Thus begins an intricate dance of status and favor. In 
theory, a ghoul has no place and no standing within the sect, 
but the trusted and ancient ghoul of an elder may well carry 
more weight in council than a blood-on-the-chin ranting 
neonate. Complicating matters is the fact that most ghouls 
are indeed blood bound to their masters, and get both 
enthusiastic and inventive in those masters’ defense. Such 
zealotry often pits ghouls against other Kindred who pose a 
threat to their masters, and can lead to embarrassing mo- 
ments for the vampires in question. The choice between 
setting the precedent of allowing a ghoul to attack a Kindred 
and get away with it, or sacrificing a favorite ghoul to appease 
a hated rival is a particularly unappealing one. 

In the end, ghouls are held to a double standard — 
despised asa class but valued individually. No vampire—and 
no ghoul —should ever forget it. The consequences of a poor 
memory, on anyone's part, are invariably both fatal and brief. 


Tre GUDE TO THE CaMARLLA 


230 


A 


Age 13 

Alastors 140 

Anarch Free State 201 

Anarchs 195 
Attitudes 204 
Fashion 199 
Joining 197 
Manners 201 
Roleplaying 206 
Sabbat Recruitment of 198 
Subculture 198 
Survival Among 198 

Archetypes 66 
Dabbler 67 
Idealist 66 
Scientist 67 
Soldier 66 

Archons 27 

Autarkis 202 


Blood Hunt 137 
Techniques 140 
Boons 149 


c 


Character Creation 61 
Abilities 62 
Advantages 64 
Archetypes 66 
Attributes 62 
Backgrounds 64 

Generation 65 
Blood Pool 65 
Character Concept 61 
Clan 61 
Coterie 66 
Disciplines 64 

Out-of-Clan 64 
Freebie Points 65 
Humanity 65 
Last Touches 65 
Merits and Flaws 73 
Munchkins 72 
Nature and Demeanor 62 
Secondary Abilities 67 
Spark of Life 65 
The Prelude 65 
Virtues 64 
Willpower 65 

Clan Prestige 35 
Brujah 37 
Gangrel 48 
Malkavian 39 
Nosferatu 41 
Toreador 42 
Tremere 44 


INDEX 


Ventrue 46 
Clans and Bloodlines 35 
Assamite 53 
Brujah 36 
Concerns 37 
Organization 36 
Practices and Customs 
37 
Strength and Influence 36 
Caitiff 54 
Daughters of Cacophony 51 
Dealing With Others 51 
Roleplaying 51 
Followers of Set 49 
Dealings With Others 50 
Roleplaying 50 
Gangrel 47 
And Rom 49 
Concerns 48 
Departure of, 20 
Organization 47 
Practices and Customs 48 
‘Strength and Influence 47 
Gargoyles 56 
Giovanni 51 
Independents and antitribu 49 
Lasombra antitribu 58 
Malkavian 37 
Concerns 39 
Organization 38 
Practices and Customs 39 
Strength and Influence 38 
Nosferatu 39 
Concerns 40 
Organization 40 
Practices and Customs 40 
Strength and Influence 39 
Ravnos 53 
Samedi 51 
Dealings With Others 52 
Roleplaying 52 
Toreador 41 
Concerns 42 
Organization 41 
Practices and Customs 42 
Strength and Influence 41 
Tremere 43 
Concerns 44 
Organization 44 
Practices and Customs 44 
Strength and Influence 43 
Tzimisce 53 
Ventrue 45 
Concerns 45 
Organization 45 
Practices and Customs 46 
‘Strength and Influence 45 
Conclave 130 
Accomodations 134 
as Trials 136 


Etiquette 134 
Running 137 
Security 131 
Travel 132 

Conflict 182 

Consequences 193 

Coterie 66 
Coterie Building 186 
War Coteries 147 

Court 125 


D 


Death 192 
as a Storytelling Tool 192 
Definition 19 
Destruction 124 
Diablerie 124, 140 
Disciplines 81 
Animalism 82 
Animal Succulence 82 
Conquer the Beast 84 
Shared Soul 82 
Species Speech 83 
Taunt the Caged Beast 84 
Unchain the Beast 84 
Auspex 84 
Clairvoyance 84 
False Slumber 87 
Karmic Sight 85 
Mirror Reflex 86 
Prediction 84 
Psychic Assault 86 
Telepathic Communica- 
tion 84 
Celerity 87 
Flower of Death 87 
Projectile 87 
Zephyr 87 
Combination Disciplines 117 
Creation of 116 
Elemental Stoicism 117 
Martyr's Resilience 117 
Creation of 81 
Dominate 88 
Chain the Psyche 88 
Far Mastery 89 
Loyalty 88 
Mass Manipulation 89 
Obedience 89 
Speak Through the 
Blood 89 
Still the Mortal Flesh 89 
Flight 115 
Fortitude 90 
Adamantine 91 
Personal Armor 90 
Shared Strength 91 
Obfuscate 91 
Cache 92 
Conceal 91 


Create Name 92 
Mind Blank 91 
Old Friend 92 
Soul Mask 91 
Veil of Blissful Ignorance 92 
Potence 93 
Earthshock 93 
Flick 94 
Imprint 93 
Presence 94 
Cooperation 96 
Ironclad Command 96 
Paralyzing Glance 95 
Pulse of the City 96 
Spark of Rage 95 
Protean 96 
Earth Control 96 
Flesh of Marble 97 
Inward Focus 98 
Purify the Impaled 
Breast 98 
Restore the Mortal 
Visage 97 
Shape of the Beast's 
Wrath 98 
Spectral Body 98 
Thaumaturgy 99 
Elemental Mastery 99 
Neptune's Might 101 
Path of Technomancy, 
The 104 
Spirit Manipulation 106 
Thaumaturgical 
Countermagic 108 
Green Path, The 100 
Path of Corruption, The 102 
Weather Control 108 
Thaumaturgy Rituals 109 
Bind the Accusing 
Tongue 109 
Blood Walk 110 
Burning Blade 110 
Donning the Mask of 
Shadows 110 
Enchant Talisman | 13 
Engaging the Vessel of 
Transference 110 
Escape to a True Friend 114 
Flesh of Fiery Touch 111 
Heart of Stone 113 
Incantation of the 
Shepherd 110 
Purity of Flesh 110 
Sanguine Assistant 111 
Shaft of Belated 
Quiescence 112 
Splinter Servant 113 
Ward versus Kindred 114 
Ward versus Spirits 114 
Warding Circle versus 
Ghouls 111 


Visceratika 114 
Armor of Terra 116 
Bond with the Mountain 
116 
Flow Within the 
Mountain 116 
Say the Hearthstone 115 
Skin of the Chameleon 115 


Elders 207 


Dealing with 216 
Storytelling with 220 
Elysium 157 
Embrace, The 119 
Battlefield Promotions 
122 
During Wartime 120 


G 


Ghouls 227 
Golconda 224 


Harpy 30 
Tactics of 31 
History 20 
The 20th Century 22 
The Founding 20 
The New World 21 
Hunters 184 


Inconnu 222 

Storytelling With 227 
Inner Circle, the 26 
Intrigue 13 


J 

Justicars 26, 27 

K 

Keeper of Elysium 30 


L 


Lexicon 14 
Lextalionis 136 


M 


Masquerade, The 25 
Breaches 25 
Merits and Flaws 72 
Mental 74 
Coldly Logical 74 
Computer Aptitude 74 
Guilt-Wracked 74 
Impatient 74 


Precocious 74 
Stereotype 74 
Thirst for Innocence 74 
Unconvinced 74 
Useful Knowledge 74 
Victim of the Masquer- 
ade 74 

Physical 73 
Bruiser 73 
Dulled Bite 73 
Friendly Face 73 
Glowing Eyes 73 
Open Wound 73 
Permanent Fangs 73 
Twitch 73 

Social 74 
Alternate Identity 76 
Blood Hunted 78 
Boon 75 
Botched Presentation 77 
Bound 77 
Broken Bond 76 
Bullyboy 75 
Catspaw 77 
Clan Enmity 78 
Clan Friendship 76 
Disgrace to the Blood 
Domain 76 
Elysium Regular 74 
Escaped Target 77 
Expendable 77 
Failure 77 
Former Ghoul 74 
Former Prince 78 
Friend of the Under- 
ground 76 
Harmless 74 
Harpy 76 
Holder of Office 76 
Hunted Like a Dog 78 
Incomplete Understand- 
ing 77 
Laughingstock 78 
Loathsome Regnant 78 
Masquerade Breaker 77 
Mole 76 
Narc 78 
New Arrival 77 
New Kid 77 
Old Flame 77 
Old Pal 75 
Open Road 75 
Overextended 78 
Primogen 76 
Primogen Friendship 76 
Protegé 75 
Recruitment Target 77 
Red List 78 
Rep 75 

Rising Star 76 

Rival Sires 77 

Sabbat Survivor 75 

Scholar of Enemies 76 


Scholar of Others 76 
Sheriff's Friend 76 
Sleeping With the 
Enemy 78 
Sympathizer 77 
Uppity 77 

Supernatural 78 
Additional Discipline 79 
Beacon of the Unholy 79 
Cold Breeze 79 
Deathsight 79 
Deceptive Aura 78 
Healing Touch 79 
Hidden Diablerie 79 
Inoffensive to Animals 79 
Lord of the Flies 79 
River of Blood 79 

Metagaming 183 

Monitors 225 

Mood 178 


N 
Nemeses and Antagonists 190 
o 


Old Form 17 
Oops 33 
Ordeals 130 
Organization 19 


P 


Plot 180 
Presentation 122 
Accruing Debt 147 
Formality 149 
Paying Off 148 
Prestation 146, 147 
Formality 149 
Interest 146, 147 
Paying Off 147 
Welshing on Debts 149 
Primogen 28 
Prince, the 28 
Punishment 127, 129 
Common Sentences 131 


R 
Red List, The 140 
s 


Scourge 32 
Secondary Abilities 63, 67 
Knowledges 70 

Clan Knowledge 70 
Computer Hacking 71 
Economics 71 
History 71 
Other Possibilities 72 
Psychology 72 


Tht GUIDE To THE CAMARILLA 


232 


Skills 69 
Acrobatics 69 
Camouflage 70 
Hunting 70 
Other Possibilities 70 
Talents 67 
Diplomacy 67 
Haggling 67 
Intrigue 68 
Other Possibilities 69 
Scrounging 68 
Search 68 
Seneschal 29 
Setting 151 
Bad Neighborhoods 156 
Basics 151 
Economy 165 
Geography 153 
History 159 
Politics 165 
Population 162 
Suburbs 157 
Weather 158 
Sheriff 31 
Storytelling 177 


T 


Templates 165 
The Trophy 141 
Theme 179 
Traditions, The 22 
The Fifth Tradition: 
Hospitality 24 
The First Tradition: The 
Masquerade 22 
The Fourth Tradition: The 
Accounting 23 
The Second Tradition: The 
Domain 22 
The Sixth Tradition: 
Destruction 24 
The Third Tradition: The 
Progeny 23 
Trials 127 
Laywers 128 


v 
Vulgar Argot 15 
w 


War 142 
Strategies 143 
Chain of Command 144 
Defense 143 
Defensive 145 
Fronts 144 
Tactics 144 
Offensive 144 
Whip 29 
Who's Who 26 


y | A j | 
i IA 7A 
| |) N Bah 
L AN N| N Va | | 
` y DEE DESCEUNG | 


COMING SOON 


THE 
GoD- MACHINE 


CHRONICLE 


WHAT HAS RISEN 
MAY FALL 


What is the God—Machine? 


That question 
doesn't have a single, 
easy answer, 
but that 
doesn 't stop people 
The World of Darkness 
is layer upon layer of mystery, 
but what 
is the mechanism 
that keeps it all moving? 
Is there a design in play? 
And what happens 
to those who think 
to use the Machine 


for their own ends? eat 


WHAT HAS FALLEN 
MAY RISE AGAIN 


AVAILABLE NOW! 


Available Now for 
Vampire the Masquerade 
20 Anniversary Edition 


