Vampire Merits and Flaws

            ClansAdvantagesTraitsMerits/FlawsSpending XP

      Like Negative Traits, Merits and Flaws are not essential to your 
      character, but they can add an extra dimension to your roleplaying and 
      depth to your character. You may choose up to five traits of Merits, or 
      one Merit worth five or more, but these must be counterbalanced by Flaws. 
      For example, you could take the Merit "Berserker" (2 Traits) and the Merit 
      "Acute Vision" (1 Trait), which would total 3 Traits. These 3 Traits would 
      have to be counterbalanced by Flaws, which you could do with 
      "Absent-Minded" (3 Traits). All Merits and Flaws are subject to 
      Storyteller approval. 
      General Merits & Flaws
      Code of Honor (1 Trait Merit)
      You have a personal code of ethics to which you strictly adhere. Even
      when you are frenzying, you will attempt to obey it. You can automatically
      resist most temptations that would bring you into conflict with your code.
      When battling supernatural persuasion that would make you violate your 
      code,
      you gain two free bids to resist. You must construct you own personal code
      of honor in as much detail as you can, outlining the general rules of
      conduct by which you abide.
      Higher Purpose (1 Trait Merit)
      You have a goal that drives and directs you in everything. You do not
      concern yourself with petty matters and casual concerns because your 
higher
      purpose is everything. Though this purpose may sometimes force you to 
      behave
      contrary to your survival instinct, it can also grant you great personal
      strength. You gain two extra bids on all rolls that have anything to do 
      with
      this higher purpose.
      Berserker (2 Trait Merit)
      The Beast is in you, but you know how to direct and make use of it. You
      have the capacity to frenzy at will and are thus able to ignore your wound
      penalties until you've reached Torpor. However, you must pay the
      consequences of your actions while in frenzy, just as you normally would.
      your chance of entering an unwilling frenzy is also unaffected. 
      Compulsion (1 Trait Flaw)
      You have a psychological compulsion that causes you a number of
      different problems. Your compulsion may be for cleanliness, perfection,
      bragging, stealing, gaming, exaggeration or just talking. You may
      temporarily avoid your compulsion by spending a Willpower Trait, but it is
      in effect at all other times.
      Dark Secret (1 Trait Flaw)
      You have some sort of secret that, if uncovered, would embarrass you
      immensely and make you a pariah in the Kindred community. While it weighs 
      on
      your mind at all times, it will only surface occasionally in
      stories--otherwise, it will begin to lose impact.
      Intolerance (1 Trait Flaw)
      You have an unreasoning dislike of a certain thing. It may be an
      animal, a class of person, a color, a situation, or just about anything at
      all. Some dislikes may be too trivial to be reflected here--a dislike of
      pomegranates or tissue paper, for instance, will have little effect on 
play
      in most chronicles. Storytellers are the final arbiters on what you can
      choose to dislike.
      Nightmares (1 Trait Flaw)
      You experience horrendous nightmares every time you sleep, and memories
      of them haunt you during your waking hours. Sometimes the nightmares are 
so
      bad that you are one bid down on all your challenges for the next night
      (Storytellers' discretion). Some of the nightmares may be so intense that
      you mistake them for reality.
      Phobia--Mild (1 Trait Flaw)
      An overpowering fear of something causes you to instinctively and
      illogically avoid it. You must expend a Mental Trait if you wish to remain
      in the vicinity of the object of your fear.
      Prey Exclusion (1 Trait Flaw)
      You refuse to hunt a certain class of prey. For instance, an animal
      lover might decide to hunt only humans, or a character might decide to 
      spare
      a class of person she particularly admires: police, teachers, medical
      professionals, clergy, peace activists and so on. You are disturbed and
      occasionally frenzy when others feed from this type of prey (Storytellers'
      discretion). If you accidentally feed upon this class of prey yourself, 
you
      will automatically frenzy and will risk gaining additional Derangements.
      Ventrue cannot take this Flaw.
      Overconfident (1 Trait Flaw)
      You have an exaggerated and unshakable opinion of your own worth and
      capabilities--you never hesitate to trust your abilities, even in 
      situations
      where you risk defeat. Because your abilities may not be enough, such
      overconfidence can be very dangerous. When you do fail, you quickly find
      someone or something else to blame. If you are convincing enough, you can
      infect others with your overconfidence.
      Soft Hearted (1 Trait Flaw)
      You cannot stand to watch others suffer--not necessarily because you
      care about what happens to them, but simply because you dislike the
      intensity of emotion. If you are the direct cause of suffering and you
      witness it, you will experience nights of nausea and days of sleepless
      grief. You avoid situations where you might have to witness suffering and
      will do anything you can to protect others from it. Whenever you must
      witness suffering, you are one bid down on all challenges for the next 
      hour.
      Speech Impediment (1 Trait Flaw)
      You have a stammer or some other speech impediment which hampers verbal
      communication. You should roleplay this impediment all the time.
      Low Self-Image (2 Trait Flaw)
      You lack self-confidence and don't believe in yourself. You are two
      bids down in situations where you don't expect to succeed (Storytellers'
      discretion, though the penalty might be limited to one bid if you take the
      responsibility of pointing these times out to the storytellers). At the
      Storytellers' option, you may be required to use a Willpower Trait to do
      things that require self-confidence, in situations that others would not 
be
      obliged to do so.
      Vengeance (2 Trait Flaw)
      You have a score to settle. This score may be from either your mortal
      or vampiric days. Either way, you are obsessed with wreaking vengeance on 
      an
      individual (or perhaps an entire group), and make revenge your first
      priority in all situations. The need for vengeance can only be overcome by
      spending Willpower Traits, and even then it only temporarily subsides.
      Hatred (2 Trait Flaw)
      You have an unreasoning hatred of a certain thing. This hate is total
      and largely uncontrollable. You may hate a species of animal, a class of
      person, a color, a situation--anything. You constantly pursue 
opportunities
      to harm the hated object or to gain power over it.

      MENTAL Merits & Flaws
      Calm Heart (3 Trait Merit)
      You are naturally calm and well-composed, and don't fly off the handle.
      You are always two bids up on all your tests to resist frenzy, no matter 
      how
      you are provoked.
      Strong Will (5 Trait Merit)
      When you are determined and your mind is set, little can thwart you
      from your goals. You get an automatic retest against powers of Dominate
      directed at you, as well as any spells or rituals that would affect your
      mind. Note that only one such retest can be used in any given challenge.
      In addition, spending a Willpower Trait will negate the effects of a
      Dominate challenge, regardless of your generation.
      Confused (2 Trait Flaw)
      You are often confused, and the world seems to be a very distorted and
      twisted place. Sometimes you are simply unable to make sense of things. 
You
      need to roleplay this behavior all the time to a small degree, but your
      confusion becomes especially strong whenever stimuli surround you (such as
      when a number of different people talk all at once, or you enter a 
      nightclub
      with loud, pounding music). you may spend Willpower to override the 
effects
      of your confusion, but only temporarily.
      Weak-Willed (4 Trait Flaw)
      You are highly susceptible to Dominate and intimidation by others; in
      fact, anyone using powers of Dominate against you receives one automatic
      retest per challenge, although only one such retest may be used in any 
      given
      challenge (as per Strong Will above). Furthermore, you can employ your
      Willpower only when survival is at stake or it is appropriate to your 
      Nature.
      Absent-Minded (3 Trait Flaw)
      Though you do not forget such things as Abilities, you do forget names,
      addresses and when you last ate. In order to remember anything more than
      your own name and the location of your haven, you need to spend a 
Willpower
      Trait.

      AWARENESS related Merits & Flaws
      (NOTE: Auspex cannot compensate for sensory flaws) 
      Acute Hearing (1 Trait Merit)
      You have exceptionally sharp hearing, even for a vampire. You
      automatically have two free bids on all challenges relating to your 
hearing
      perception.
      Acute Sense of Smell (1 Trait Merit)
      You have an exceptionally keen sense of smell. You are automatically
      two bids up on all challenges relating to your sense of smell.
      Acute Sense of Taste (1 Trait Merit)
      You have an exceptionally keen sense of taste. You are automatically
      two bids up on all challenges relating to your sense of taste. You are 
able
      to make precise distinctions in taste.
      Acute Vision (1 Trait Merit)
      You have exceptionally keen eyesight. You are automatically one bid up
      on all challenges that involve sight perception.
      Hard of Hearing (1 Trait Flaw)
      Your hearing is defective. You are automatically two bids down on
      hearing perception tests.
      Bad Sight (2 Trait Flaw)
      Your sight is defective. You are automatically two bids down on all
      sight perception tests. This Flaw is neither nearsightedness nor
      farsightedness; it is a minor form of blindness and is not correctable.
      One Eye (2 Trait Flaw)
      You have only one eye--choose which, or determine randomly during
      character creation. You have no peripheral vision on your blind side, and
      are two bids down on any test requiring depth perception. This includes
      missile combat. You must cover the "bad" eye during game play. 

      APTITUDE related Merits & Flaws
      Eat Food (1 Trait Merit)
      You have the capacity to eat food. It's an ability you developed at an
      early point in your undead existence, or perhaps it has been a latent
      ability all along. This is considered disgusting by other Kindred, but can
      be of great assistance in maintaining the Masquerade. (You may still eat 
in
      the Out Of Game Room even if you don't have this merit.)
      Pitiable (1 Trait Merit)
      There is something about you that others pity. This causes them to care
      for you as if you were a child. Some Natures will not be affected by this
      Merit (e.g., Deviant and Fanatic), and some Demeanors may pretend they are
      not. You need to decide what it is about you that attracts such pity, and
      how much (or how little) you like it. When someone has challenged you with
      intent to do you harm, you may use this Merit as one free bid in your
      defense. You can never lose this bid as a result of a test, and you can 
use
      it only once in every situation of this nature. 
      Daredevil (3 Trait Merit)
      You are good at taking risks, and are even better at surviving them.
      You are one bid up on any challenge in which you try something 
particularly
      dangerous. This does not always apply to combat; only when you are
      obviously outmatched.
      Jack-of-All-Trades (5 Trait Merit)
      You have a large pool of miscellaneous skills and knowledges obtained
      through your extensive travels, the jobs you've held, or just all-around
      know-how. You may automatically attempt any action even though you do not
      have the appropriate skill, and you need not spend Willpower to do so.
      However, if you lose this challenge, the Traits you bid are also gone. You
      can, of course, spend a Willpower Trait to avoid losing the Traits you 
      just 
      bid.
      Illiterate (1 Trait Flaw)
      You cannot read or write. If you have this falw, you cannot learn 
      Thaumaturgy.
      SUPERNATURAL related Merits & Flaws
      Inoffensive to Animals (1 Trait Merit)
      Animals do not fear or distrust you the way they do most Kindred. They
      treat you as they would any mortal and do not shy from your touch. Samedi
      cannot take this flaw.
      Special Gift (1-3 Trait Merit)
      Your sire gave you a valuable gift after the Embrace. The Storytellers
      will create something suitable, and will decide how much a particular item
      is worth.
      True Love (1 Trait Merit)
      You have discovered, but may have lost (at least temporarily), a true
      love. Nonetheless, this love provides joy in a torrid existence usually
      devoid of such enlightened emotions. Whenever you are suffering, in danger
      or dejected, the thought of your true love is enough to give you the
      strength to persevere. In game terms, this love allows you two extra bids
      in a challenge, but only when you are actively striving to protect or come
      closer to your true love. Also, the power of your love may be powerful
      enough to protect you from other supernatural forces (Storyteller's
      discretion). However, your true love may also be a hinderance and require
      aid (or even rescue) from time to time.
      Medium (2 Trait Merit)
      You possess the natural affinity to sense and hear spirits. Though you
      cannot see them, you feel their presence and are able to speak with them
      when they are in the vicinity. It is even possible for you to summon them
      (through pleading and cajoling) to your presence. Spirits will not simply
      aid you or give you advice gratis - they will always want something in 
      return. 
      Danger Sense (2 Trait Merit)
      You have a sixth sense that warns you of danger. When you are in a
      surprise situation, you are allowed an action to defend yourself against 
      the
      aggressor, but you CANNOT perform an offensive action.
      Faerie Affinity (2 Trait Merit)
      Your presence does not frighten faeries; indeed, it attracts them, and
      you are naturally attuned to their ways.
      Magic Resistance (2 Trait Merit)
      You have an inherent resistance to the rituals of the Tremere and the
      spells of the mages of other creeds and orders. Although you may never
      learn the Discipline of Thaumaturgy, all such spells and rituals are two
      bids down when directed at you. Note: this includes all spells, beneficial
      and malign alike!
      Occult Library (2 Trait Merit)
      You possess a library of occult materials, which may include at least
      one version of "The Book of Nod." You are not necessarily familiar with 
the
      contents of these volumes of knowledge (that is a function of your
      Abilities), but in time of need you library can be an invaluable source 
for
      research.
      Spirit Mentor (3 Trait Merit)
      You have a ghostly companion and guide. This spirit is able to employ
      a number of minor powers when it really struggles to exert itself (see
      "Haunted" below), but for the most part its benefit to you is through the
      advice it can give. This advice generally takes place between games,
      although at the Storyteller's discretion (and availability) this advice 
can
      occur during games as well. Be careful not to overtax you spirit mentor, 
as
      they can be taxed easily and thus be made unavailable for the remainder of
      the evening.
      Unbondable (3 Trait Merit)
      You are immune to being Blood Bound. No matter how much blood you
      drink from other vampires, you will never be bound to them.
      Blase (5 Trait Merit)
      You are resistant to uses of the Presence discipline. Any time a
      Presence power is used on you, you get one automatic retest against that
      challenge. Note that only one such retest may be used in any one 
challenge.
      Also, you may use Willpower to negate the effects of Presence used on you,
      regardless of generation. When attempting to break someone's Majesty, you
      may retest the challenge once, although if you lose the second time,
      standard rules apply.
      Luck (5 Trait Merit)
      You were born lucky - or else the Devil looks after his own. Either
      way, you can repeat three failed tests per night. Only one repeat attempt
      may be made on any single test. Note: to keep track of Luck expenditures,
      we will be giving out Luck cards (just like Blood trait and Willpower 
      cards)
      for the player to rip up when they use their Luck. If someone says they
      have Luck, make them tear up their card before the challenge is redone.
      Guardian Angel (6 Trait Merit)
      Someone or something watches over you and protects you from harm. You
      have no idea who or what it is, but you're sure it's there. You may be
      supernaturally protected, but you should never count upon your guardian
      angel. The Storytellers must decide why you are being watched over, and by
      what (not necessarily an angel). 
      True Faith (7 Trait Merit)
      You have a deep-seated faith in and love for God, or whatever name you
      choose to call the Almighty. Perhaps your faith came to you before your
      Embrace and was strong enough to survive even this test; or, incredibly
      enough, the adversity you have experienced in your current condition has
      brought out what is best in you. You begin the game with one Trait of
      Faith. Your Faith provides you with an inner strength and comfort that
      continues to support you when all else betrays you. It can be used just
      like Willpower Traits to avoid frenzy and to retain you lost Traits in a
      challenge. The exact supernatural effects of Faith are completely up to 
the
      Storytellers. It will certainly vary from person to person. The nature of
      any miracles you do perform will usually be tied to your own Nature, and 
      you
      may never realize that you have been aided by a force
      beyond yourself.
      You must not have ANY Derangements in order to choose this Merit, and
      if you ever get a permanent Derangement, you lose your faith and may only
      recover it through extensive penitence and work (and only when your
      Derangement is gone).
      Cursed (1-5 Trait Flaw)
      You have been cursed by someone or something with supernatural or
      magical powers. This curse is specific and detailed, it cannot be 
dispelled
      without extreme effort, and it can be life-threatening. Some examples 
      follow:
      If you pass an a secret, your betrayal will later harm you. (1) 
      You stutter uncontrollably. (2)
      Tools often break or malfunction when you attempt to use them. (3)
      You are doomed to make enemies of those you love. (4)
      All of your accomplishments will inevitably become somehow tainted.(5)
      WARNING! TAKE AT YOUR OWN RISK!!! The Storytellers WILL enforce this.
      Repulsed by Garlic (1 Trait Flaw)
      You cannot abide the smell of garlic, and the smallest taint of its
      scent will drive you from a room. The full force of its pungent odor will
      bring bloody tears to your face and render you nearly blind, while its 
      touch
      can cause boils and even open wounds. You are always one bid down on any
      challenges when the smell of garlic is in the air.
      Magic Susceptibility (2 Trait Flaw)
      You are susceptible to the magical rituals of the Tremere, as well as
      to spells of mages of other creeds and orders. You are two bids down on 
all
      spells cast upon you, and all spells cast have twice normal effect on you.
      Repelled by Crosses (3 Trait Flaw)
      You are repelled by the sight of ordinary crosses (just as if they were
      holy). Kindred who were of the Church prior to their Embrace are most
      likely to possess this Flaw; they perceive that their new form is a
      judgement from God.
      Haunted (3 Trait Flaw)
      A wraith that only you (and Mediums) can see and hear haunts you. It
      actively dislikes you and enjoys making your life miserable by insulting 
      you
      - especially when you need to keep your cool. It also has a number of 
minor
      powers it can use against you (once per story for each power): hide small
      objects, bring a "chill" over others, making them very ill at ease with 
      you,
      cause a loud buzzing in your ear or the ears of others, move a small 
object
      such as a knife or pen, break a fragile item such as a bottle or a mirror,
      trip you, or make eerie noises such as chains rattling. Yelling at the
      wraith can sometimes drive it away, but it will confuse those around you. 
      NOTE: Storytellers WILL enforce this.
      Light Sensitive (5 Trait Flaw)
      You are even more sensitive to sunlight than are other vampires.
      Sunlight causes twice the normal damage, and even moonlight (which is 
after
      all, the reflected light of the sun) harms you. Indeed, even bright lights
      can be painful, but that pain can be mitigated by wearing sunglasses. When
      the moon is shining, the light it casts will cause wounds in the same way
      sunlight does for normal individuals. However, the wounds caused by the
      moon are not aggravated and can be healed normally.

      PHYSICAL related Merits & Flaws
      Baby Face (1 Trait Merit)
      You look more human than other vampires, enabling you to fit in the
      human world much more easily. Your skin is pink, you never really stopped
      breathing (even though you don't need to) and even sneezing comes 
      naturally.
      You can make your heart beat as long as you have at least one Blood Trait.
      NOTE: This last statement means that you CANNOT make your heart beat at 
      will
      unless you have Baby Face. Nosferatu cannot take this merit.
      Double-jointed (1 Trait Merit)
      You are unusually supple. You are one bid up on all Physical
      Challenges requiring body flexibility (i.e. getting out of a hold, playing
      Twister, and trying to squeeze through the Ear Canal on the hit game show
      Double Dare).
      Efficient Digestion (3 Trait Merit)
      You are able to draw more than the usual amount of nourishment from
      blood. Each two Blood Traits ingested increases your Blood Pool by three.
      Round down so leftover 'halves' are ignored. For instance, taking four
      Blood Traits raises the Blood Pool by six, and taking five Blood Traits
      raises the pool by seven.
      Huge Size (4 Trait Merit)
      You are abnormally large in size, possibly over seven feet tall and 400
      pounds in weight. You therefore have one additional Health Level and are
      able to suffer more harm before you are incapacitated. Treat this extra
      level as one extra Healthy Level, with no penalties to rolls. When acting
      this part, players should dress appropriately with bulky clothes, unless
      they already have a stature that approximates this Merit.
      Allergic (1-3 Trait Flaw)
      You are allergic to some substance in a manner not unlike mortal
      allergies. While you do not get hives or sneeze, you are incapacitated by
      your reaction. If the substance was in the blood you drank, the reaction
      will be very strong, though touch alone is enough to disturb you. If it 
was
      in the blood, you will be three bids down on all challenges for 20 
minutes.
      If you just touched it, the penalty is reduced to one bid. Choose from the
      list below or make up the substance to which you are allergic:
      Plastic: 1 Trait
      Illegal Drugs: 2 Traits
      Alcohol: 2 Traits
      Metal: 3 Traits
      Selective Digestion (1-2 Trait Flaw)
      You can digest only certain types of blood. You can choose whether you
      can drink only cold blood (the blood of a dead person), blood with the 
      taste
      of fear, blood with the taste of joy, or perhaps only certain blood types
      (A+, O-, etc.). Ventrue and characters with Prey Exclusion cannot take 
this
      Flaw, since they have something like it already.
      Disfigured (2 Trait Flaw)
      A hideous disfigurement makes you easy to notice as well as to
      remember. You cannot take any Social Traits that would compliment your
      Appearance, much like the Nosferatu. Furthermore, you are two bids down on
      any Social Challenge (except Intimidation) when your true appearance is 
      visible.
      Deformity (3 Trait Flaw)
      You have some kind of deformity - a misshapen limb, a hunchback, or
      whatever - which affects your interactions with others and may 
      inconvenience
      you physically. You are one bid down on all tests of a physical nature.
      Furthermore, all challenges related to physical appearance are two bids 
      down.
      Lame (3 Trait Flaw)
      Your legs are injured or otherwise prevented from working effectively.
      You suffer a three bid penalty to all tests related to movement.
      Monstrous (3 Trait Flaw)
      There is something wholly monstrous about you, something that makes you
      even more hideous than a Nosferatu. You scarcely look human, but the 
manner
      in which you differ is up to you. Perhaps you have grown scales or warts
      all over your body, or perhaps the scream you issued when you died has 
been
      permanently frozen on your face. You cannot win a Social Challenge (other
      than Intimidation) when your true visage is apparent. Nosferatu cannot 
take
      this Flaw.
      One Arm (3 Trait Flaw)
      You have only one arm. You suffer a two bid penalty to any test where
      two hands would normally be needed to perform the task. NOTE: If you would
      like to have the removed arm to bat people about the heads with (non-agg
      damage), then this is only a 1 Trait flaw. Sorry, it can never be 
      re-attached.
      Permanent Wound (3 Trait Flaw)
      You suffered injuries during the Embrace, which your sire did nothing
      to repair. You start each night at the Wounded Health Level. This can be
      healed like normal damage, but each evening, after sleep, your wounds 
      always
      return.
      Thin-Blooded (3 Trait Flaw)
      You have weak blood and are unable to use it for anything but
      sustaining yourself from night to night and healing your wounds. Blood
      cannot be used to add to your Physical Traits, to fuel blood Disciplines, 
      or
      to create a Blood Bond. Moreover, you will not always be able to create a
      vampire. Half the time the embrace will simply not work. For Caitiff this
      is only a 2 Trait Flaw.
      Mute (4 Trait Flaw)
      If you don't understand this flaw, you're one hurt'n puppy.
      Paraplegic (5 Trait Flaw)
      You cannot take the Merit Double-jointed if you have this Flaw.

      back to top
       
       
       
      All artwork and text contained herein are the legal property of the owner 
      and/or creator
      and may not be reproduced without permission. 
      ©2002 SEER Productions
      All Rights Reserved
